The Project Gutenberg eBook of Hellflower, by George O. Smith

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Hellflower

Author: George O. Smith

Release Date: January 10, 2023 [eBook #69762]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HELLFLOWER ***





                              HELLFLOWER

                            GEORGE O. SMITH

                             PYRAMID BOOKS
                               NEW YORK

      [Transcriber's Note: Extensive research did not uncover any
  evidence that the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]

                              HELLFLOWER
                            A PYRAMID BOOK
          Published by arrangement with Abelard-Schuman, Inc.

                Abelard-Schuman edition published 1953
               Pyramid edition published November, 1957
                    Second printing February, 1969

                  Copyright 1953, by George O. Smith

                          All Rights Reserved

                Printed in the United States of America

      PYRAMID BOOKS are published by Pyramid Publications, Inc.,
         444 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10022, U.S.A.


                               For Doña




IT LOOKED AS INNOCENT AS A GARDENIA ...

But the Hellflower's perfume turned any woman into any man's woman.
The haunting, pungent scent aroused desires too fierce to be slaked by
ordinary passions--and left its victims burnt-out husks!

Charles Farradyne knew that no woman could resist the Hellflower. Yet
Carolyn, the girl he wanted above all to possess, smiled when he gave
her the deadly bloom--smiled and inhaled the perfumed poison....

HELLFLOWER is the fantastic story of a lovely woman who was not quite
human--and of a man who went through heaven and hell to win her.




                                   1


The book had been thrown at Charles Farradyne. Then they had added the
composing room, the printing press and the final grand black smear of
printer's ink. So when Howard Clevis located Farradyne working in the
fungus fields of Venus four years later, he found a beaten man who no
longer burned with resentment because he was all burned out. Farradyne
looked up dully when Clevis came into the squalid rooming house.

"I am Howard Clevis," said the visitor.

"Fine," mumbled Farradyne. "So?" He looked at one of the few white
shirts in a thousand miles and grunted disapprovingly.

"I've a job for you, Farradyne."

"Who do you want killed?"

"Take it easy. You're the Charles Farradyne who--"

"Who dumped the Semiramide into The Bog, and you're Santa Claus, here
to undo it?"

"This is on the level, Farradyne."

Farradyne laughed shortly, but the sound was all scorn and no humor.
While his raw bark was still echoing in the room, Farradyne added,
"Drop it, Clevis. With a thousand licensed spacemen handy everywhere,
willing to latch onto an honest buck, any man that comes half way
across Venus to offer Farradyne a job can't be on the level."

Clevis eyed Farradyne calculatingly. "I should think you might enjoy
the chance."

"I'm a bum, but I'm no murderer."

"I told you--"

"You've said a lot of nothing. So you came here to offer me a legit?"

"Yes."

"It doesn't look good."

Clevis smiled calmly. He had the air of a man who knew what he
was doing. He was medium tall, a sprinkle of gray in his hair and
determined lines near the eyes and across the forehead. There was
character in his face, but nothing to show whether this character was
high or low. Just strong and no doubt about it. "I'm here, Farradyne,
just because of the way it looks. The fact is that I need you. I know
you're bitter, but--."

"Bitter!" roared Farradyne, getting to his feet and stalking across the
wretched little room toward Clevis. "Bitter? My God! They haul me home
on a shutter so they can give me a fair trial before they kick me out.
You don't think I like it in this rat hole, do you?"

"No, I don't. But listen, will you?"

"Nobody listened to me, why should I listen to you?"

"Because I have something to say," said Clevis pointedly. "Do you want
to hear it?"

"Go ahead."

"I'm Howard Clevis of the Solar Anti-Narcotics Department."

"Well, I haven't any. I don't use any. And I don't have much truck with
them that do."

"No one is on trial here and nothing that you say can be used in any
way. That's why I came alone. You're on the wrong trolley. But I'll
tell you this, Farradyne, if I were in your shoes I'd do anything at
all to get out of this muck field."

"Some things even a bum won't do. And I don't owe you anything."

"Wrong. When you dumped the Semiramide into The Bog four years ago, you
killed one of our best operatives. We need you, Farradyne, and you owe
us one. Now?"

"When I dumped the Semiramide no one would listen to me. Do you want to
listen to me now?"

"No, I don't."

"I got a raw deal."

"So did the man you killed."

"I didn't kill anybody!" yelled Farradyne.

Clevis eyed him calmly even though Farradyne was large enough to take
the smaller, older man's hide off. "I am not here to argue that point,"
he said. "And I don't intend to. Regardless of how you feel, I'm
offering you a chance to get out of this mess. It's a space job."

"What makes you think I'll play stool pigeon?"

"It's no informer's job. It's space piloting."

"I'll bet."

"You bet and I'll cover it a thousand to one."

Farradyne sat down on the dingy bed. "Go ahead and talk, Clevis. I'll
listen."

Clevis dug into his briefcase and brought out a flower. "Do you know
what this is?" he asked, handing the blossom to Farradyne.

Farradyne looked at it briefly. "It might be a gardenia, but it isn't."

"How can you tell?" asked Clevis eagerly.

"Only because you wouldn't be coming half way across Venus to bring me
a gardenia. So that is a love lotus."

Clevis looked a bit disappointed. "I thought that maybe you might have
some way--"

"What makes you think I'd know more than a botanist?"

Clevis smiled. "Spacemen tend to come up with some oddly interesting
specks of knowledge now and then. No, I didn't really hope that you'd
know more than a botanist. But--"

"So far as I know, there's only one way of telling. That's to try it
out. Thanks, I'll not have my fun that way. That's one thing you can't
pin on me."

"I wouldn't try. But listen, Farradyne. In the past twelve years we
have carefully besmirched the names and reputations of six men hoping
that they could get on the inside. For our pains we have lost all six
of them one way and another. The enemy seems to have a good espionage
system. Our men roam up and down the system making like big-time
operators and get nowhere. The love lotus operators seem to be able to
tell a phony louse when they see one."

"And I am a real louse?"

"You've a convincing record."

Farradyne shook his head angrily. "Not that kind," he snapped. "Your
pals sloughed off my license and tossed me out on my duff to scratch,
but no one ever pinned the crooked label on me and made it stick."

"Then why did they take away your license?"

"Because someone needed a goat."

"And you are innocent?"

Farradyne growled hopelessly. "All right," he said, returning to his
former lethargy. "So just remember that all the evidence was still my
unsupported word against their assumptions. I was acquitted, remember?
Lack of evidence stands on the books. But they took my license and
tossed me out of space and that's as bad as a full conviction. So where
am I? So I'll stop beating my gums about it, Clevis."

Clevis smiled quietly. "You were a good pilot, Farradyne. Maybe a bit
too good. Your trouble was being too sure of yourself. You collected a
few too many pink tickets for cutting didoes and collecting women to
show off in front of. They'd have marked it off as an accident if it
hadn't been Farradyne. Your record accused you of being the hot-pants
pilot, the fly-fly boy. Maybe that last job of yours was another dido
that caught you. But let's leave the ghost alone. Maybe you've learned
your lesson and are willing to make a stab at it again. We need you."

Farradyne grunted and his lips twisted a bit. He got up from the unmade
bed and went to the scarred dresser to pour a stiff jolt from an
open bottle into a dirty glass. He took a sip and then walked to the
window and stood there, staring out into the dusk and talking, half to
himself. Clevis listened.

"I've had my prayer," said Farradyne. "A prayer in a nightmare. A
man fighting against a rigged job, like the girl in that old story
who turned up in her mother's hotel room to find that every trace of
her mother's existence had been erased. Bellhops, and cab driver,
steamship captain and the hotel register, all rigged. Even the police
deny her. Remember? Well, that's Farradyne, too, Clevis. Do you know
what happened? My first error was telling them that someone came into
the control room during landing. They said that no one would do that
because everybody knew the danger of diverting the pilot's attention
during a landing. No one, they said, would take the chance of killing
himself, and the other passengers would stop anyone who tried to go up
the stairs at that time because they knew the danger to themselves.

"Then they practically scoffed me into jail when I told them that
there were three people in the room. A pilot might just as well be
blindfolded and manacled to his chair during landing. He hasn't time
to play games around tables and chairs. So I heard three people behind
me and couldn't look. All I could do was to snarl for them to get the
hell out. So then we rapped the cliff and dumped into The Bog, and I
got tossed out through the busted observation dome. They salvaged the
Semiramide a few months later and found only one skeleton in the room.
That made me a liar. Besides the skeleton was of a woman, and they
all nodded sagely and said, 'Woman? Well, we know Farradyne!' and I
got the works. So," said Farradyne, bitter-sounding once more, "they
suspended me and took away my license. No jobs for a man trained for
space and nothing else. They wouldn't even let me near a spacer--maybe
they thought I might steal one, forgetting that there is no place to
hide. Maybe they thought I'd steal Mars, too. So if I want a drink they
ask me if it's true that jungle juice gives a man hallucinations. If I
light a cigarette I'm asked if it is real laughing grass. If I ask for
a job they want to know how hard I'll work for my liquor, and so I end
up in this godforsaken marsh, playing nurse-maid to a bunch of stinking
toadstools." Farradyne's voice rose to an angry pitch. "The mold grows
on your hide and under your nails and in your hair, and you forget what
it's like to be clean and you lose hope and ambition because you're
kicked off the bottom of the ladder, but you still dream of someday
being able to show the whole damned solar system that you are not the
louse they made you. Then, instead of getting a chance, a man comes to
you and offers you a job because he needs a professional bastard with a
bad record. It's damned small consolation, Clevis."

Farradyne sniffed at the glass and then threw it out the window with
a derisive gesture. "I'll ask for a lot of things," he said quietly,
now. "And the first thing is for enough money to buy White Star Trail
instead of this rotgut."

"That can be done, but can you take it?"

"It'll be hard," admitted Farradyne. "I've been on this diet of soap
and vitriol too long. But I'll do it. Give me a month."

"I can't offer you much," said Clevis. "But maybe this can be hope for
you. Help us clean up the hellblossom gang and you'll do a lot toward
erasing that black mark on your record."

"Just what is the pitch?"

Clevis took a small leather folder from his briefcase and handed it
over. Farradyne recognized it as a space pilot's license before he
opened it. He read it with a cynical smile before he asked, "Where did
you get it?"

"It's probably the only official forgery in existence. The Solar
Anti-Narcotics Department--SAND--has a lot of angles to play. First,
that ticket is made of the right paper and printed with the right
type and the right ink because," and Clevis smiled, "it came from the
right office. The big rubber stamp, 'Reinstated,' is the right stamp
and the initials are put on properly, but not by the right man. The
license will get you into and out of spaceports and all the rest of the
privileges. But it has no listing on the master log at the Bureau of
Space Personnel. It's an excellent forgery, it will not be questioned
so long as you stay out of trouble. The only people who will check on
the validity will be the ones we hope to catch. When they discover that
your ticket is invalid, you may get an offer to join 'em."

"And in the meantime?"

"In the meantime you'll be running a spacer in the usual way. We've
a couple of sub-contracts you can handle to stay in business. You'll
pick up other business, no doubt. But there are two things to remember,
always."

"Two?"

"Two. The first is that you've got to play it flat, no nonsense. Just
remember who and what you are. And just to make sure of it, I'll
remind you again that you are a crumb with a bad reputation. You'll
be running a spacer worth a hell of a lot of dough and there will be a
lot of people asking a lot of other people how you managed the deal.
Probably none of them will ever get around to asking you, but your
attitude is the same as the known gangster whose only visible means
of support for his million-dollar estate and his yacht and his high
living is the small string of hot-dog stands or the dry-goods store.
That he owns all these things is only an indication of thrift and good
management."

"I get it," grinned Farradyne.

Clevis snapped, "This is no laughing matter. What goes along with this
is important. You'll play this game as we outline it to you and in no
other way. The first time we find you playing hanky-panky, we'll have
you by the ears in the morning. And if you cut a dido and get pinned
for it, there you'll be with a forged license and a spacer that will
have some very odd-looking registration papers so far as the Master Log
runs. And no one is going to admit that he knows you. Certainly the
SAND office won't. And furthermore, if you do claim any connection at
any time for any reason whatsoever, we'll haul you in for attempting to
impersonate one of us. You're a decoy, a sitting duck with both feet in
the mud, Farradyne, and no damned good to anybody until you get mired
deeper in the same stinking mud. There'll be more later. Now for the
second item."

"Second? Weren't there ten or twelve in that last delivery?" grunted
Farradyne.

"That was only the beginning. The second is this. Do not, under any
circumstances, make any attempt to investigate that accident of yours."

"Now look," snapped Farradyne hotly, "I've spent four years--"

"In the first place, nothing that you could possibly do would convince
anybody that you were the innocent bystander. So--"

"But I'm telling you--"

"The game you are going to play will not permit you to make any attempt
to clear up that mess. As a character of questionable background, your
attitude must be that of a man caught in a bad show and forced to
undergo visible suffering long enough for the public to forget, before
you can resume your role of professional louse. Got this straight?"

Farradyne looked at Clevis, gaunt has-been looking at success. The
window was dark now, but there were no stars visible from the surface
of Venus, only Terra and Jupiter and Sirius and Vega and a couple of
others that haloed through the haze. The call of the free blackness of
space pulled at Farradyne. He turned back from the window and looked
at the unmade bed, the insect-specked wall, the scarred dresser, the
warped floor. His nose wrinkled tentatively and he cursed inwardly
because he knew that the joint reeked of rancid sweat and mildewed
cloth and unwashed human body, and his nose was so accustomed to this
stink that he could not smell it.

Farradyne came to understand in those few moments while Clevis watched
him quietly, waiting for his decision, that his oft-repeated statement
that there were some things that even a bum wouldn't do was so much
malarkey. Farradyne would have joined the hellblossom operators for an
opportunity to get out of this Venusian mire. He turned to Clevis.

"Let's go," he said.

Clevis cast a pointed look at the dresser.

"There's nothing in the place but bad memories," said Farradyne. "I'll
leave 'em here. Good, bad or indifferent, Clevis, I'm your man no
matter how you want it played. For the first time in years I seem to
want a bath and a clean shirt."

As Clevis headed toward the door Farradyne aimed a solid kick at the
dresser, putting one more scar on its marred flank. "I'm behind you,"
he said.




                                   2


He was rustier than he had realized. For it was not only four years
away from the levers of the control room and the split-second decision
of high speed, it was four years of rotting in skid-row. His muscles
were stringy, his skin was slatey, his eyes were slow and he had
lost tone. He was flab and ache and off his feed. He was slow and
overcompensating in his motions. He missed his aim by yards and
miscalculated his position and his speed and his direction so badly
that Donaldson, who rode in the co-pilot's seat, sat there with his
hands poised over the levers and clutched convulsively or pressed
against the floor with his feet, chewing his lips with concern as
Farradyne flopped the sky cruiser roughly here and there. They
practiced on Mercury where the traffic was very light, in a Lancaster
Eighty-One which was a fine piece of space-cruiser by any man's
opinion, and Farradyne punished the ship like a recruit.

It took him a month to get the hang of it again. A solid month of
severe discipline, living in the ship and taking exercise and routine
practice to refine his control. He found that making the change from
the rotgut jungle juice to White Star Trail was not too hard because
his mind was busy all the time and he did not need the high-powered
stuff to anesthetize. White Star Trail was a godsend to the man who
liked the flavor of fine Scotch whiskey but could not afford to befog
his coordination by so much as a single ounce of the pure quill. It
was a synthetic drink that tasted like Scotch but lacked the alcoholic
kick, and Farradyne learned soon enough that he could forego the jolt
of high-test liquor in favor of the pleasant flavor because he had
discovered ambition again.

Eventually they "soloed" him. Donaldson sat in the easy chair in
the salon below talking to Clevis and he could hear them discussing
problems unrelated to him. Their voices came over the squawk-box
clear enough to understand. It gave Farradyne confidence. He took the
Lancaster Eighty-One into the sky and circled Mercury for a landing,
and for a moment relived that black day in his past, vividly.

He had called the spaceport, "Semiramide calling North Venus Tower."

"Aye-firm, Semiramide, from North Venus Tower."

"Semiramide requesting landing instructions, give with the dope, Tower."

"Tower to Semiramide. Beacon Nine at one hundred thousand feet, Landing
Area Twelve. Traffic is One Middleton Seven-Six Two at thirty thousand
taking off from Beacon Two and one Lincoln Four-Four landing at Beacon
Seven. Keep an eye peeled for a Burbank Eight-Experimental that's been
scooting around at seventy-thousand. That's all."

"Aye-firm, Tower."

Then had come the voice of a woman behind him. Just a murmur, perhaps
a sigh of wonder from a woman who had just been shown for the first
time in her life the intricacies of rack and panel, of meter and gage
and lever and shining device that surround the space pilot to demand
every iota of his attention during take-off or landing. In Farradyne's
recollection, there were two kinds of people; one kind stood in the
center of such an array and held their hands together for fear of
upsetting something, and the other kind couldn't keep their hands off a
button or a lever if it meant their own electrocution.

There were thirty-three people aboard, thirteen of them women and
Farradyne wondered which of them it was. He didn't care. "Get the hell
below," he snarled over his shoulder. The man who had brought her up
made some sound. Farradyne was even shorter with the man. A woman
might wander up, interested, but a man should know that this was a
deadly curiosity. "Take her below, you imbecile," he snapped.

An older man chimed in with something that sounded like an agreement
with Farradyne's order. There was a brief three-way argument that
lasted until one of them had fallen for the lure of a dark pilot lamp
and an inviting pushbutton. The Semiramide bucked like a wasp-stung
colt and the silver-dull sky over Venus Spaceport whirled....

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne was shocked out of this vivid daydream by the matter-of-fact
voice of the Mercury Port's dispatcher, "Lancaster from Tower, you are
half a degree off landing course. Correct."

Farradyne responded, "Instructions received, Tower. Will correct. Will
correlate instruments after landing."

"Aye-firm, Lancaster Eighty-One."

Farradyne's remembrances ended and his solo landing was firm and easy;
almost as good as he used to do in the days before....

He put it out of his mind and went below to Clevis and Donaldson. The
latter asked him what had been the matter with the course.

"I hit a daydream of the Semiramide," admitted Farradyne.

"Better forget it," suggested Clevis, drily.

"I came out of it," said Farradyne shortly.

"Okay?" Clevis looked at Donaldson. The pilot nodded. "Okay, Farradyne,
you're ready. This is your ship; you're cleared to Ganymede on
speculation. You'll play it from there. There's enough money in the
strong-locker to keep you going for a long time on no pickups at all;
you'll get regular payment for the Pluto run. Play it flat, and help us
out. Just remember, no shenanigans."

"No games," promised Farradyne.

Clevis stood up. "I hope you mean that," he said earnestly. "If nothing
else remember that your--er,--misfortune on Venus four years ago may
have put you in a position to be a benefactor to the mankind you hate
at the moment. I hope you'll find that they are as quick to applaud a
hero as to condemn a louse. Don't force me to admit that my hope of
running down the hellblossom outfit was based on a bum hunch. Don't let
me down, Farradyne."

Clevis left then, before Farradyne could find words. Donaldson left
with him, but stopped at the spacelock to hurl one sentence. "Pilots
are a proud lot, Farradyne. Luck, fella."

An hour later Farradyne was a-space between Mercury and Ganymede. On
his own in space for the first time in four long, aching years. Not
quite a free man, but at least no prisoner. He took a deep breath
once he was out of control-range and could put the Lancaster on the
autopilot. Gone were the smells and the rotting filth of the fungus
fields and here were the bright, clear stars in the velvety sky. Here
was freedom--freedom of the body, at least. Maybe even freedom of the
soul. But not freedom of the intellect, yet. He had a tough row to hoe
and the tougher row of his innocence to turn up into the light of day.
But for the first time since he was thrown flat on his face he felt he
had a chance.

Eventually he hit the sack....

Ganymede was in nightfall and Jupiter was a half-rim over the horizon
when he landed. He checked in at the Operations Office and listed
his Lancaster as available for a pickup job. The clerk that took his
license to make the listing raised a mild eyebrow at the big rubber
stamp reading "Reinstated" across the face of the card, but made no
comment. Farradyne's was not the only one so stamped and Farradyne
knew it. Pilots had been suspended for making a bounce-landing with
an official aboard or coming in too slantwise instead of following a
beacon down vertically.

He folded the leather case and slipped it back in his pocket. He looked
at the pickup list which was not too long. Farradyne knew that he had
a fair chance of picking up a job here, and if he did it would add to
whatever backlog Clevis had left him. The space business was an odd
one and Farradyne found himself able to figure his chances as though
he had not spent his time digging mushrooms on Venus. His chances were
excellent; the pilot that owned his own ship outright was a rare one.
The rest were mortgaged to the scuppers and it was a touch and clip
job to make the monthly payments. Some pilots never did get their
ships paid off but managed to scratch out a living anyway. A pilot
with a clear ship could eventually start a string of his own. This was
the ultimate goal which so many aimed at but so few achieved. With no
mortgage to contend with, Farradyne could loaf all over space and still
make out rather well, picking up a job here, a job there.

He waved a hand at the registry clerk and went out into the dark of the
spaceport.

Rimming the edge of the field were three distant globs of neon, all
indicating bars. One was as good as the next, so Farradyne headed
toward the nearest. He entered it with the air of a man who had every
right to land his ship anywhere he pleased and head for the nearest
bar. He waggled a finger at the barkeep, called for White Star Trail,
and dropped a ten-spot on the bar with a gesture indicating that he
might be there long enough for a second.

Then he turned and hooked one heel in the brass rail, leaned back on
the mahogany with his elbows and surveyed the joint like a man with
time and money to spare, looking for what could be found.

Appropriately, it was called The Spaceman's Bar even though the name
indicated a lack of imagination, for there were about sixteen hundred
Spaceman's Bars rimming spaceports from Pluto to Mercury. The customers
were about the same, too. There were four spacemen playing blackjack
for dimes near the back of the room. Two women were nursing beers,
hoping for someone to come and offer them something more substantial.
Two young fellows were agreeing vigorously with one another about the
political situation which neither of them liked. One character should
have gone home eighteen drinks earlier and was earning a ride home on
a shutter with a broken nose by needling a man who showed diminishing
patience. A woman sat in a booth along the wall, dressed in a copy
of some exclusive model. The copy had neither the material nor the
workmanship to stand up for much more than the initial wearing, and it
looked now as though she had worn it often. The woman herself had the
same tired, overworked look as her dress. She was too young to have
that look, but she had it and Farradyne wondered how she had earned it.
He looked away, disinterested. He favored the vivacious brunette who
sat gayly across the table from a young spaceman and enticed him with
her eyes.

Farradyne shrugged, the girl had eyes for no one else and she probably
couldn't have been pried away from her young man by any means, fair or
foul. It occurred to Farradyne from the way she was acting, that if
some other guy slipped her a love lotus, the girl would take a deep
breath, get bedroom eyed, and then leave the guy to go looking for her
spaceman. Farradyne grinned at the idea; the hapless spendthrift who
bought the love lotus would probably go roaring back to the seller
raising hob about being rooked on the deal because the lotus hadn't
worked.

He finished his drink and then turned back to the bar for a refill. As
he turned to face the road again he saw that a man had come in and was
standing just inside the door, blinking at the light. He was eyeing the
customers with a searching look.

Eventually he addressed the entire room, "Who owns the Lancaster
Eighty-One that just came in?"

"I do," said Farradyne.

"Are you free?"

"Until the third of August."

"Terran, I see."

"Right. Anything wrong in being Terran?"

"Not at all. Just an observation. I'm Timothy Martin of the Martian
Water Commission and I'd like to hire you for a trip to Uranus."

"My name is Charles Farradyne and maybe we can make a deal. What's the
job, Mr. Martin?" Farradyne eyed the room furtively, wondering if the
mention of his name would ring any cracked bells among the spacemen. It
didn't seem to, and Farradyne did not know whether to be gratified at
man's forgetfulness or depressed.

"Only three of us and some instruments," said Martin.

"That's hiking all the way to Uranus empty, you know."

"I know, but this is of the utmost importance. Government business."

"It's up to you; I'll haul you out there on a three passenger charter,
since you probably haven't enough gear to make it a payload. Okay?"

"It's a bit high," objected Martin, "but this is necessity. Can you be
ready for an early morning hop off?"

"You be there with your gear and we'll hike it at dawn." He turned to
the barkeep and wagged for a refill, then indicated that Martin be
served. The government man took real bourbon but Farradyne stuck to his
White Star Trail. The two of them clinked glasses and drank. Farradyne
was about to say something when he felt a touch against his elbow. Her
glazed eyes were small and glittering, and her face was hardened and
thin-lipped.

"You're Charles Farradyne?" she asked in a flat voice. Beneath the tone
of dislike and distrust the voice had what could have been a pleasant
throatiness if it had not been strained.

Farradyne nodded.

"Farradyne--of the Semiramide?"

"Yes." He felt a peculiar mixture of gratification and resentment. He
had been recognized at last, but it should have come from a better
source.

She shut him out by turning to Martin. "Do you know whom you've hired?"
she asked in the same flatness of tone. Profile-wise, she was not much
more than a girl. Maybe twenty-three at the most. Farradyne could not
explain how a woman that young could possibly have crammed into the
brief years all the experience that showed in her face.

Martin fumbled for words. "Why, er--" he started, lamely.

"This rum-lushing bum is Charles Farradyne, the hot-rock that dumped
his spacer into The Bog."

"Is this true?" demanded Martin of Farradyne.

"I did have an accident there," said Farradyne. "But--"

The woman sneered. "Accident, you call it. Sorry, aren't you? Reeking
with remorse. But not so grief stricken that you'll not take this man
out and kill him the way you killed my brother."

Farradyne grunted. "I don't know you from Mother Machree," he said.
"I've had my trouble and I don't like it any more than you do."

"You're alive, at least," she snarled at him. "Alive and ready to go
around skylarking again. But my brother is dead and you--"

"Am I supposed to blow out my brains? Would that make up for this
brother of yours?" demanded Farradyne angrily. Some of the anguish
of the affair returned. He recalled all too vividly his own mental
meanderings and the feeling that suicide would erase that memory. But
he had burned himself out with those long periods of self-reproach.

"Blow your brains out," advised the girl, sharply. "Then the rest of us
will be protected against you."

"I suppose I'm responsible for you, too?" he asked bitterly.

Timothy Martin gulped his drink down. "I think I'd better find another
ship," he said hurriedly.

Farradyne nodded curtly at Martin's back. He looked down at the girl.
He felt again the powerful impulse to plead his case, to explain. But
he knew that this was the wrong thing to do. Martin had refused the
job once Farradyne had been identified. This might be the start of the
game that Clevis wanted. Farradyne could louse it up for fair by saying
the wrong thing here and now. So instead of making some appeal to the
woman, Farradyne eyed her coldly.

There was something incongruous about her. She looked like the standard
tomato of the spacelanes; she dressed the part and she acted it. The
rough-hewn language and the cynical bitterness were normal enough but
her acceptable grammar and near-perfect diction were strange. He had
catalogued her as a drunken witch but she was neither drunk nor a
witch. Nor was she a thrill-seeking female out slumming for the fun of
it. She belonged in the "Spaceman's Bar" but not among the lushes.

He caught it then. He had been too far from it for too long. The
glazed, bored eyes, the completely blasé attitude gave it away first;
then the fact that she had become animated at the chance to start a
scene. Dope is dope and all of it works the same way. The first sniff
is far from dangerous, but the second must be larger, and the third
larger still until the body craves a massive dose. In some dope it is
physical, in others the effect is mental. With the love lotus it was
emotional. The woman had been on an emotional toboggan; her capacity
for emotion had been dulled to such an extent that only a scene of real
violence could cut through the emotional scars to give her a reaction.
Someone had slipped the girl a really topnotch dose of hellflower.

"Who are you?" he asked.

"Norma Hannon," she snapped. "And I don't suppose you remember Frank
Hannon at all."

"Never met him."

"You killed him."

Farradyne felt a kind of hysteria, he wanted to laugh and he knew that
once he started he could not stop easily. Then the feeling went away
and he looked around the room.

Every eye in the place was on him, but as he looked at them and
met their eyes, they looked down or aside. He knew the breed, they
were spacemen, a very strange mixture of high intelligence and hard
roughness; Farradyne knew that to a man they understood that the most
damaging thing they could do to him was to deny him the physical
satisfaction of a fight. He could rant and roar and in the end he would
be forced to leave the joint. It would be a lame retreat, a defeat.

He looked back at the girl. She stood there in front of him with her
hands on her hips, swaying back and forth and relishing the emotional
stimulus of hatred. She wanted more, he could see. Farradyne wanted out
of here; the girl had done her part for him and could do no more. To
take her along as a possible link to the hellblossom operators was less
than a half-baked idea. She would only make trouble because trouble was
what she relished.

"I've got it now," she blurted. Her voice rose to a fever-pitch, her
face cleared and took on the look of someone who is anticipating a
real thrill. Norma Hannon was at that stage in addiction where bloody,
murderous butchery would thrill her only to the same degree as a normal
woman being kissed goodnight at her front door. "I've got it now," she
said, and her voice rang out through the barroom. "The only kind of a
rascal that could dump a spacer and kill thirty-three people and then
turn up with another spacer, is a big-time operator. You louse!" she
screamed at him. Then she turned to the rest of the room.

"Fellows, meet Charles Farradyne, the big-time hellflower operator!"

Farradyne's nerves leaped. He knew his spacemen. A louse they could
ignore but a dope-runner they hated viciously. Their faces changed from
deliberate non-recognition of him to cold and calculated hatred, not
of Farradyne, but of what he represented. Farradyne knew that he had
better get out of here quickly or he would leave most of his skin on
the floor.

Something touched him on the shoulder, hard. He snapped his
head around. The bartender had rapped him with the muzzle of a
double-barreled shotgun.

"Get the hell out of here, Farradyne," said the barkeep between
narrowed lips. "And take your rotten money with you!"

He scooped up the change he had dropped beside Farradyne's glass and
hurled the original ten-dollar bill at him. It went over the bar and
landed in a spittoon between the brass rail and the bar.

"Pick it up," growled the barkeep coldly. He waved the shotgun and
forced Farradyne to retrieve the soggy bill. "Now get out--quick!" Then
his voice rose above the growing murmur of angry men. "Sit down, God
dammit! Every bloody one of you sit the hell down! We ain't going to
have no trouble in here!" He covered the room with the shotgun.

Farradyne left. It was an ignominious retreat but it kept him a whole
skin. He burned inwardly, he wanted to have it out, but this was the
game Clevis wanted him to play and it was the price of his freedom from
the fungus fields. So he left, burning mad. He took it on the run to
his Lancaster, knowing that the barman would hold the room at bay only
until a bare escape was made.

He took the ship up as soon as the landing ramp had been retracted and
only then did his nerves calm down. He looked at the whole affair--he
seemed to have started with a bang. If Clevis wanted a decoy, what
better decoy than to make a noise like a small guy muscling in on a big
racket? The word would travel from bar to bar, from port to port until
it reached the necessary person.

Time was unimportant now. The word must get around. So instead of
driving to some definite destination, Farradyne set the Lancaster in a
long, lazy course and let the big ship loaf its way into space.




                                   3


Big Jupiter and tiny Ganymede were dwindling below by the time
Farradyne was finished at the control panel. He was hungry and he was
tired, so he was going to eat and hit the sack. He turned and saw her.

Norma Hannon sat in the computer's chair behind the board. Her hands
were folded calmly and her body was listless. She had been quietly
waiting for him to get finished with the important part of his piloting
before she started anything. Farradyne grunted uncertainly because he
was completely ignorant of her attitude, except perhaps the feeling
that she would enjoy violence.

"Well?" he said.

"I caught the landing ramp as it came running in."

"Why?"

"You owe me a couple," she told him. "You're a lotus runner, you can
give me one. Simple as that."

"How do you figure?"

"You killed my brother," she said. There was more vigor in her tone as
the anger flared again. "So you owe me more than a couple of blossoms
for it, at least."

"What makes you think--"

"Another thing," she interrupted. "I wanted to come along with you."

"Now see here--"

"Don't bother pretending you give a damn for the lives of the people
you sell those things to. Run your dope and get your dough and skip
before you have to see the ruin you bring." The flare of anger was with
her and she wriggled in her chair with an animal relish that was close
to ecstasy.

"But I can't--"

"Keep it up," she said. "You'll satisfy me, one way or another." She
eyed him critically. "You can't win, Farradyne. I've had my love lotus,
and all that is left of my feeling is heavy scar-tissue. Pleasure and
surprise are too weak to cut through; only a burning anger or a deep
hatred are strong enough to make me feel the thrill of a rising pulse.
I can get a lift out of hating you, but if you kissed me it would leave
me cold." She paused speculatively. "No, would it? Farradyne, come
here."

"But why?"

"Because I hate your guts. Of all the people in the solar system, I
hate you the most. I can keep telling myself that you killed Frank, and
that does it. And I add that you are a love lotus runner and in some
way part and parcel of this addiction of mine and that builds it up.
Now if you came over and kissed me, I'd let you and the very thought
of being kissed and fondled by such a completely rotten reptile as
Farradyne makes me seethe with pleasant anger."

Farradyne recoiled.

"Afraid?" she jeered, wriggling again. "You know, as a last thrill I
might kill you. But only as a last thrill. Because then the chance to
hate you actively would be over and finished and there could be no
more. So between hating your guts and getting an occasional hellflower
from the man I hate, I can feel almost alive again."

Farradyne shook his head. This sort of talk was above and beyond him.
No matter what he said or did it was the wrong thing, which made it
right for Norma Hannon.

He did not know much about the love lotus. All he knew was from
hearsay. But that did not include this sort of completely illogical
talk. Like many another man, Farradyne had always scorned the use of
any chemical means to lower the inhibitions of a woman. He wanted them
to love him for himself, not because of a sniff of perfume that made
them any man's woman.

Seeing this end result actually made Farradyne feel better about the
lot he had been cast in. If Clevis was the kind of man who boiled
inwardly from a sense of outraged civic responsibility, Farradyne was
beginning to feel somewhat the same.

He looked at Norma Hannon more critically. She had been a good-looking
woman not too long ago. She had probably laughed and danced and fended
off wolves and planned on marriage and happy children in a pleasant
home. Someone had cut her out of that future and Farradyne felt that he
wanted to get the man's neck between his hands and squeeze. He shook
himself and wondered whether this addiction to hatred were contagious.

He said softly, "Who did it, Norma?"

Her eyes changed. "I loved him," she breathed in a voice that was both
soft and heavy with another kind of anger than the violence she had
shown just a moment before. This was resentment against the past, while
her previous flare had been against the physical present. "I loved
him," she repeated. "I loved the flat-brained animal enough to lead him
into the bedroom if that's what he wanted. But no, the imbecile thought
that the only way I would unfreeze was with a hellflower. So he parted
with half a hundred dollars for one. The idiot could have rented a
hotel room for a ten-dollar bill," she added sourly. "Or bought a
marriage license and had me for the rest of his life for five."

"Why didn't you refuse it?" he asked. "Or didn't you know that it
wasn't a gardenia?"

Norma looked up with eyes that started to blaze, but they died and she
was listless again. "Maybe because people like to flirt with danger,"
she said. "Maybe because men and women don't understand each other."

"That's the understatement of the century."

There was no flicker of amusement in her face. "Look at it this way,"
she said. "I did say I loved him. So naturally he wouldn't be the kind
of man who would bring me a love lotus. Or if he did I could wear it
for the lift they bring without any danger, because any man worth
loving would not take advantage of his sweetheart while she's unable to
object. So I wore it and when I woke up after a real orgy instead of a
mild emotional binge, I was on the road toward having no feelings left.
I've been on the road ever since and I've come far."

She looked at him again. "See what you and your kind have done?" she
demanded. Farradyne knew that she was whipping herself into a fury
again. "I was a nice, healthy woman once, but now I'm a burned out
battery. It takes a spot of violence to make me feel anything. Or maybe
a sniff from a lotus. Maybe by now it would take more than one."

"But I haven't any."

She snarled at him. "You can afford to part with one stinking flower."

Norma leaped out of her chair and came across the room, her face
distorted, her hands clutching at his face. Farradyne fought her away,
and saw with dismay the look of animated pleasure on her face. It
was an unfair fight; Farradyne was trying to keep her from hurting
him without being forced to hurt her. She went at him with heel and
fingernail and teeth.

He gave up. Taking a cold aim at the point of her jaw, Farradyne let
her have it. Norma recoiled a bit and her face glowed even more. In his
repugnance at hitting a woman he had not struck hard enough. She came
after him again, enjoying the physical violence, looking for more of
the same. Farradyne gritted his teeth and let her have it, hard.

Norma collapsed with a suddenness that scared him. He caught her before
she hit the metal floor and carried her to the salon below, where he
laid her on the padded bench that ran along one wall. His knowledge of
things medical was not high, but it was enough to let him know that
she did not have a broken jaw. Of one thing there was no doubt: Norma
was out colder than he had ever seen man or woman.

He carried her to one of the tiny staterooms, and stood there
contemplating her and wondering what to do next. He would have been
puzzled as to the next move if Norma had been a completely normal
woman. As it was, Farradyne decided that no matter what he did it
would be wrong. She would be as angry at one thing as at another. The
cocktail dress would not stand much sleeping in before it came apart at
the seams, but she would surely rave if he took it off to save it for
tomorrow. If he left her in it, she would rave at him for letting her
ruin the only thing she had to wear.

Farradyne gave up and slipped the hold-down strap across her waist and
let it go at that.

He would take what happened when she woke up.

Then he went to his own stateroom and locked the door because he didn't
want any more ruckus and confusion. He slept fitfully even though the
locked door separated him securely from both amour and murder--both of
which added up to the same end with Norma.

It was a sixty-hour trip from Ganymede to Mars. Each hour was a bit
more trying than the one before. Norma bedeviled him in every way she
knew. She found fault with his cooking but refused to go near the
galley herself. She objected to the brand of cigarettes he smoked. She
made scathing remarks whenever he touched an instrument, reminding him
of his incompetence as a pilot. She scorned him for refusing to bring
her the lotus.

By the time Farradyne set the Lancaster down at Sun City on Mars, he
had almost arrived at the point where her voice was so much meaningless
noise.

He landed after the usual discussion of landing space and beacon route
with Sun Tower, and Farradyne found time to wonder whether the word
about his affiliation had been spread yet. For the Tower operator paid
him no more attention than if he had been running in and out of the
spaceport for years.

He pressed the button that opened the spacelock and ran out the landing
ramp.

"This is it," he said flatly.

"This is what?" she asked negatively.

"The end of the line."

"I'm staying."

"No, you're not."

"I'm staying, Farradyne. I like it here. You go on about your sordid
business, and see that you get enough to spare a couple for me. I'll be
here when you return."

Farradyne swore. She had moved in on him unwanted and had ridden with
him unwanted. If she wanted to, she could raise her voice, and brother,
that would be it. One yelp and Farradyne would spend a long time
explaining to all sorts of big brass why he was hauling a woman around
the solar system against her wishes. A phenomenal quantity of sheer
hell can be raised by any woman merely by making a howl of shocked
surprise, putting on a look of wounded dignity and pointing a finger at
any man within a pebble's throw. Even men who have been rooked in this
ladylike maneuver are inclined to lean the other way and convict the
man when a woman plays that trick.

So grunting helplessly, Farradyne left her in the Lancaster and went to
register at Operations. He was received blandly, just as he had been
received on Ganymede. Then he headed into Sun City to stall a bit. He
went to a show, had a drink or two, prowled around a bookstore looking
for something that might inform him about the love lotus and then
bought himself some clothing to augment his scant supply. He succeeded
in forgetting Norma Hannon for four solid hours.

Then he remembered, and with the air of a man about to visit a dentist
for a painful operation, Farradyne went reluctantly back to his ship.

The silence that met him was reassuring. Even if she had been sound
asleep, the noise of his arrival should have roused her so that she
would come out to needle him some more. He looked the ship over
carefully, and satisfied himself that Norma Hannon was not present.

This was too good to miss.

He raced to the control room, punched savagely at the button that
closed the spacelock and fired up the radio. "Lancaster Eighty-One
calling Tower."

"Go ahead, Lancaster."

"Request take-off instructions. Course, Terra."

"Lancaster, is your passenger aboard?"

"Passenger?"

"Check Stateroom Eight, Lancaster. Your passenger informed us that she
was going into town, that you were not to leave without her."

"Aye-firm, I will check." Farradyne snarled at the closed microphone.
Willfully abandoning a passenger would get him into more trouble than
trying to explain the reason for the presence of his guest. Norma had
done a fine job of bolting the Lancaster to the landing block in her
absence.

He waited fifty seconds. "Tower from Lancaster Eighty-One. I will wait.
My passenger is not aboard."

"Lancaster. Hold-down Switches to Safety, Warm-up Switches to
Stand-by. Power Switches to Off. Open your port for visitor."

"Visitor, Tower?"

"Civilian requests conference about pickup job. Are you free?"

"I am free for Terra, Tower."

"Prepare to receive visitor, Lancaster. Good luck on job."

"Aye-firm. Over and off."

Farradyne went below and rode the bottom step of the landing ramp on
its way out of the spacelock. He reached the ground about the same time
as the arrival of a port jeep, which brought his visitor to him.

"You're Charles Farradyne? I'm Edwin Brenner. I'm told you are free for
Terra. Is that right?"

"That's right."

Brenner nodded. He looked around. The jeep was idling and making enough
noise so that the driver sitting in the machine could not possibly hear
anything that was being said. The driver was not even interested in
them; something in the distance had caught his eye and he was giving it
all his attention. Satisfied, Brenner leaned forward and in a low voice
said, "Let me see what you've got."

Farradyne shook his head. "Who, me?" he asked.

"You. I'm in the market. If they're in good shape, we can make a deal."

Farradyne felt that this was as good a time to play cagey as any. "I
don't know what you are talking about."

"No? I hardly think you are telling the truth."

Farradyne grinned broadly. "So I'm a liar?"

"I wouldn't say that."

"Look, Brenner, I don't know you from Adam's off ox. From somewhere,
you have the idea that I am a runner and you want to get into the
act. In the first place I am not a runner and in the second place you
have about as much chance of getting into a closed racket with that
open-faced act of yours as you have of filling a warehouse with heroin
by asking the local cops where to buy it."

Brenner smiled. "I can see you're cagey," he said. "I don't blame you.
In fact, I'd not have come out here asking like an open-faced fool if I
hadn't been completely out of stock. I'm a bit desperate." He went into
an inside pocket and came out with an envelope. "This is a credential
or two," he said, "so that when you return this way, we can maybe do
business. The usual way, you know. No questions, or witnesses. Okay?"

"I'll be back--maybe, Mr.--er, Brenner."

"You get the idea."

"I'll--" Farradyne's voice trailed away as he caught sight of the
object that had held the interest of the jeep driver. It was Norma
Hannon, who came around the fins of the Lancaster with the sun behind
her.

Her errand had been shopping. The overworn cocktail dress was gone
and in its place was a white, silky number that did a lot of fetching
things to her figure. She had also taken the complete course at some
primpmill. She was another woman. Not even Farradyne, who had seen her
for days, could have been convinced that this beautiful perfection was
not Norma's usual appearance.

Farradyne was silent. But as Brenner caught sight of her coming around
the sunlit tail of the ship, with enough sun shining through her to
make the pulses jump he made a throaty discord.

"Hello," she said brightly, as though she and Farradyne were reasonably
close acquaintances, but in a tone that indicated that she was paid
passenger and he the driver of the spacer. "I've some parcels being
delivered in a bit. We'll wait, of course?"

Farradyne agreed dumbly.

Norma nodded coolly to Brenner and said, "I'm going on in," as though
she did not want to interfere with any business that might be going
on between the two men. She went up the ramp displaying a quantity of
well-filled nylon at every step.

The roar of the jeep's engine snapped Farradyne's attention back to
Brenner--or where Brenner had been standing. The jeep was taking
Brenner away in a cloud of spaceport dust.

Farradyne shrugged. That was not the man he really wanted. Call it
close but no cigar. Farradyne did not want a man to buy love lotus, he
wanted a seller of the things, a shipper, a character from the upper
echelon. There might be an avenue through Brenner, but he doubted it.

With a sigh, Farradyne went into the Lancaster. Norma rose from the
divan along the end of the salon and whirled like a mannequin, her
silken skirt floating. She stopped and let the skirt wrap itself around
her thighs. "Like it?" she asked.

"It's very neat," he replied flatly. "But where did you get the
wherewithal?"

"I figured you owed me something so I took it out of the locker in the
control room. You left the key dangling conveniently in the lock."

Clevis had left Farradyne quite a bit of operating money but far from
enough to go cutting a silken swath across the average fashion mart.
"What's the grand idea?" he asked.

"You're a cold-blooded bird. You don't give a hoot that you and your
cowboy-spacing killed my brother and that you and your kind made it
possible for some lecher to dope me out of my feelings. I'm told
that half-decent gangsters send flowers to a rival's funeral, but you
wouldn't part with even a love lotus you aren't paid for. So if you
won't give me one, I'm going to force it out of you."

"But--"

"You get the idea," she said, smoothing a nonexistent wrinkle over one
round hip. "But I'm honest. You've some change coming." She put her
hand down in the space between her breasts and brought forth a small
roll of bills which she handed to him. Dumbly, he took them.

They were warm and scented with woman and cologne and would have
been hard on Farradyne's blood pressure if it had not been for the
anticipatory glitter in Norma Hannon's eyes. There was a small
commotion at the spacelock. Farradyne looked to see three men coming
in with fancy-wrapped boxes. He groaned and went aloft to the control
room. Norma had run the gamut without a trace of a doubt.




                                   4


Farradyne sat before his control panel with his head in his hands and
tried to think this affair out to a logical conclusion. There had to be
some way out of it all. The only alternative was to go on hauling Norma
back and forth, being the brunt of her needling and her viciousness
and getting nothing done because of it. The mess had started off bad
enough, but had now deteriorated until at the present moment the future
looked completely hopeless.

Norma's needling and goading had been hard enough to bear. Her
in-between offers of affection had been less difficult because she had
not made an attractive picture in the first place and she had not let
him forget her attitude in the second. But he realized that she was a
smart enough woman; if anything, having her emotional balance dulled
had put her in a rather interesting class of intellects. She was able
to analyze a situation without being involved emotionally herself in
the analysis. She was smart enough and unencumbered enough to realize
that playing soft-pedal on the hate theme might eventually get her what
she needed.

He was willing to bet his spare money that the boxes she was now
receiving contained whatever could be purchased of the most seductive
clothing she could find. And included in that basic idea was, most
likely, a sharp appreciation of what Farradyne would consider exciting.
Acres of exposed skin or rank nudity would pall on him. He knew it
and he bet she knew it, too. So she would come out with some little
items that might cover her from toe to chin in such a way as to make
him wonder about what was underneath: probably simple stuff with a lot
of line and fine fit and a semi-transparent quality that compelled the
eye. If she coupled this program with a soft voice as she was most
likely to do now that she had shucked the sleazy costume, Norma Hannon
would be well nigh irresistible. And if she even once got the idea that
Farradyne felt protective about her or angry at the man who doped her,
she would see to it that she stopped raving at him. It would demolish
the barrier completely. Before this happened, he had to park her
somewhere that would be binding.

Had she parents? Friends?

He hit the control panel with his fist. He hated to think of it, but he
might be able to drop her in one of the sanatoriums that had been set
up for love lotus addicts. They did little good for the victims, but
did serve to keep them out of other people's hair--and he had to get
rid of her.

It should be parents first.

Farradyne's forefinger hit the radio button viciously. "Tower? Connect
me to the city telephone."

"Aye-firm, Lancaster. Wait five."

A few seconds later he was asking for the Bennington Detective Agency,
an outfit that was system-wide and which advertised enough to make him
remember the name. He got a receptionist first and then a quiet-voiced
man named Lawson.

Farradyne came to the point. "I want any information you can collect
about the family of a man named Frank Hannon who was killed in the
wreck of the Semiramide in The Bog, on Venus, four years ago."

"You're Charles Farradyne. The same Farradyne?"

"Maybe, but is that important?"

"It might be but it will be held confidential. I'm asking because we
prefer to know the motives of clients. I'd like reassurance that our
investigation will be made for a legal reason."

"I'll put it this way. I know Frank Hannon was killed in the wreck.
I have reason to believe that he had a sister that disappeared
afterwards. If this is true, I want to know, but I haven't time to find
out through the usual channels. Fact of the matter is, I want no more
information than I could get myself if I had time to go pawing through
issues of newspapers of four years ago. No more. Is this reasonable
enough?"

"It sounds that way. I'll look through our list of missing persons. I
suggest that you either call back in a couple of hours or better that
you call in person here at my office. There will be no charge for the
initial search, but if this evolves into something more concrete--well,
we can discuss the matter when you call. All right?"

"It's okay and I'll be in your office at four o'clock."

Farradyne hung up and considered. If Norma Hannon had a couple of
grieving parents, he could hand her over to them and that would be the
end of that. He lit a cigarette and smoked for a moment and then got up
from the control console, snapped all the switches off and started for
the spacelock.

He met Norma in the salon. She had changed from her white, silky,
wide-skirted thing into a heavy satin housecoat that molded her arms
to the wrists, clung to her waist and breasts and throat, and outlined
her hips and thighs. Bare feet and painted toenails were provocatively
visible below the hem as she sat there with her legs crossed, tossing
her foot up and down.

"Thought we were about to take off again?" she asked. Her voice
was soft and personal and friendly. She had obviously dropped the
vindictive tones and was plying the affectionate line as smoothly as
she could.

Farradyne shook his head. Having a plan of action made him feel better.
"Got a call from the Tower," he said. "More business. I'll be back in a
couple of hours."

Norma held up her hand for his cigarette and he gave it to her. She
puffed deeply and offered it back. Farradyne refused it. The memory
of her needling and her desire for violence had not had time to fade.
Another twenty hours of this calmness and he would begin to look upon
the sharing of a cigarette as a pleasant gesture of companionship.

Norma shrugged at his wave of the hand in refusal. "I'll be here
when you get back," she said comfortably, wriggling down against the
cushions, and giving him the benefit of an inviting smile. She looked
for all the world like a woman who would be waiting patiently for her
man to return to her.

Farradyne left the salon swearing under his breath. If this parking of
her did not work, Farradyne was licked and he knew it.

Farradyne walked. He didn't like walking but he preferred it to
remaining in the Lancaster with Norma for the next couple of hours. He
tried to think, but he could not come to any conclusion because he had
all his hope tied on the Bennington outfit and what they might turn up.

He was shown into the office of Peter Lawson, who was a bright-eyed,
elderly man with a body surprisingly lithe for his years.

"Now, before we go any further," said Lawson, pleasantly, "I'd like to
hear your reasons for becoming interested in this case."

Farradyne nodded. "As I told you, Frank Hannon was killed in an
accident on a spacecraft I owned. That was four years ago. Recently I
met Norma Hannon in a gin mill on Ganymede and she fastened onto me
like a leech as a person to hate. You know the results of love lotus
addiction?"

"Yes. Unfortunately, I do."

"Well, it occurred to me that one way of getting rid of Miss Hannon
would be to turn her over to some relative or friend who would be
deeply interested in her welfare. Does this add up?"

"Quite logical. Miss Hannon is where you can find her?"

Farradyne nodded, with a sour look on his face. "She's sitting in my
salon waiting for me to come back so she can bait me some more."

"Why not just turn her over to the police?" asked Lawson, with a
careful look at Farradyne.

"Look," said Farradyne testily, "I don't enjoy Miss Hannon's company,
but I can't see jailing her. She isn't really vicious, she's just
another unfortunate victim of the love lotus trap. Maybe I feel a bit
concerned over her brother. Anyway, take it from there."

"Very well. I shall. The facts are these: Frank Hannon was a lawyer
with a limited but apparently lucrative practice. Norma acted as a
sort of junior partner whose ability with briefs and research made her
valuable to her brother. The case history says that Frank Hannon had
been on his way to Venus to place some case before one of the higher
courts, the nature of which is not a matter for public discussion even
at this late date. I don't know what it was myself.

"Then Frank was killed, and afterwards Norma dropped her study of law.
Her brother's death seemed quite a blow to her. Before, she dated at
random, nothing very serious. Afterwards she seemed to develop a strong
determination to marry and have children, perhaps as a substitute for
the gap left by the death of her brother. A man named Anthony Walton
became number one boy friend after a few months and they were together
constantly and seemed devoted to one another. She disappeared after
a dinner date with Walton, and Walton is now serving a term on Titan
Colony for possession of love lotus blossoms."

Farradyne shook his head. "The louse," he said.

"Everybody agrees."

"I don't know as much as I might about lotus addiction," continued
Farradyne. "It all seems so quick. One moment we have a well-bred young
woman with ideals and ambition and feeling and the next--?"

"It's a rather quick thing," said Lawson. "The love lotus or hellflower
is vicious and swift. I've studied early cases. They all seem to have
the same pattern. And oddly enough, love lotus is not an addictive
drug in every case. It is not only an aphrodisiac; it also heightens
the physical senses so that a good drink tastes better and a good play
becomes superb. The touch of her man's hand becomes a magnificent
thrill. And here is the point where addiction begins, Mr. Farradyne.
If the woman's senses and emotions are treated only to the mild
appreciation of food and drink and music and a gentle caress, the
addiction may take years and years to arrive at the point where she
cannot feel these stimuli without a sniff of hellflower. But if she
should be so unlucky as to have her emotions raised to real passion
during the period of dosage, it is like overloading the engine. You
burn her out."

"I see. And there is no cure?"

"Some doctors believe that a long period of peace and quiet under
conditions where the mildest of stimuli are available may bring
the addict back. I am of the opinion that such a place does not
exist. They fasten onto hate as an emotion that cuts through their
burned-out emotions and if you should place them among completely
bland surroundings they would find it possible to hate those that
incarcerated them. It becomes almost paranoiac--anything you do is
wrong."

"So I have discovered. But what do I do with Miss Hannon?"

"At the time of Miss Hannon's disappearance, her family offered five
thousand dollars for her return."

"I'd be happy to deliver her FOB her own front porch," said Farradyne.
"Can I hand her over to you and let you take it from there?"

"She would put up quite a ruckus," said Lawson. "I doubt that Miss
Hannon will go home willingly. It is my opinion that her response to
Walton's lovemaking was extremely high, so that the result was a quick
blunting of her normal capabilities. After this, anger and shame would
cause her--a proud woman of education and breeding--to hide where
she could not be known, where she could possibly get the hellflower
she needed. This would not be in the home of her parents. So she
will not go home willingly, and the alternative is an appeal to the
authorities. I doubt that such a course would be acceptable to either
of us."

"You're right but--"

Lawson smiled. "I heard your offer to deliver her free to her home."

"So?"

"We'll help you. We'll have an operative collect Miss Hannon at the
Denver Spaceport. All you have to do is live with this trouble for
about fifty more hours. For delivering this information, and for taking
Miss Hannon to Denver, we will be happy to divide the reward."

"I'll deliver Miss Hannon to Denver," he said, thinking that for
twenty-five hundred he could stick cotton in his ears and sweat it out
at about fifty dollars an hour.

"Good, Mr. Farradyne. I'll make arrangements to have our Mr. Kingman
meet you at Denver."

Lawson handed Farradyne a few pages of dossier on the case and showed
him out of the office. Farradyne took a deep breath and decided that
what he wanted was a drink to his good fortune. He could look forward
to getting rid of Norma Hannon, at last. He made the street and glanced
around. Finding a small bar not far from the office door of the
Bennington Agency, he went in to relax and think.

At a small table with a tiny lamp, he opened the papers that Lawson had
given him, to read them more thoroughly. The waitress was high-breasted
in a manner that invited him to look, but he merely barked, "White Star
Trail," and went back to his reading.

"Spaceman?" she asked.

Farradyne nodded in an irritated manner. She flounced off after a
moment of futile attempt to beguile a spaceman.

So when a moment later someone slid into the bench beside him,
Farradyne turned to tell her to please go because he wasn't having any,
thanks. Instead of looking into a vapidly willing face Farradyne's eyes
were met by an equally cold blue stare from the face of a hard-jawed
man dressed in a jacket tailored to half-conceal the shoulder holster
he wore. Farradyne blinked.

"Farradyne?"

"So?" said Farradyne. He tried to think but all he could cover was the
idea that someone was now playing games with guns.

"Hear tell you're running blossoms."

"Who says?"

"People."

"People say a lot of things. Which people?"

"Well, are you?"

"Who, me?"

"Can it!" snapped the newcomer.

Farradyne shrugged angrily. "What do you want me to do?" he asked in a
mild tone. "You have the jump on me. You slide into my seat and bar my
exit and then without introducing yourself you start asking questions
that could get me twenty years in poor surroundings with bad company
and no pay."

"Call me Mike. Michael Cahill is the name."

"Any identification that doesn't bark for itself?"

"It's usually good enough."

"Probably. But the numbers on its calling cards are always someone
else's."

Mike laughed. "That's not bad, Farradyne. But so far as I know your
number isn't among those present."

"I'll bet you could change a number fast enough."

"Could be," nodded Cahill. He turned over his shoulder and called to
the waitress. "Hey, Snookey, make it two instead of one."

"Mine's White Star."

"That's all right with me. It's easier to drive this rod with a clear
head."

"No doubt," said Farradyne. "So now that we are about to drink together
let's face it. You had more in mind than to pass the time of day with a
nervous spaceman who wanted to be alone."

"Correct. Or as you birds say, 'Aye-firm.' How's the hellblossom
business?"

"That's easy to answer. I haven't any and I am not in the business.
See?"

"People say you are."

Farradyne grunted. "Not too long ago someone accused me openly. The
story started when someone suggested that the only way a guy could come
from down on his bottom to the top of the heap in one large step was
to be among the big-time operators. The heavy-sugar know-how. To the
limited imagination this meant running love lotus."

Mike Cahill was silent while the waitress brought their drinks. When
she left Cahill lifted his glass to Farradyne. "Is you is or is you
ain't?" he chuckled.

"I ain't," said Farradyne, drinking with Cahill.

"Or is it maybe?"

"Maybe it's maybe."

"Stop sounding like a parrot. As I heard it that tomato in the bar on
Ganymede must have known something. You spent four years as flat on
your duff as a musclebound wrestler and then you come bouncing along in
a last-year model Lancaster. Since we know damned well that you're no
hellblossom runner, where did you get the stack?"

"Thrift and good management."

"Yeah. How'd you do it?"

"I told you."

"Maybe it's a rich uncle?"

"I haven't one. I'm just a capable operator."

"The label is sour, Farradyne."

"Then what do you make of this?" asked Farradyne, handing Cahill his
license folder.

"It looks nice and legal but it is as phony as a ten-cent diamond and
both of us know it. So how did you get it--and the Lancaster to go
along with it?"

Farradyne sipped his drink. "Look, Cahill, it just happens that it's
none of your damned business! I am not talking."

"It might make a difference if you did."

"Let's stop fencing. I may be of use to you. Now it might be that you
are a SAND agent and it might be otherwise, I still may be of use to
you either way. But the first time I start shooting off my trap, you'll
begin to get the idea that I'm not close-mouthed enough for whatever
job you have in mind for me. So let's leave it this way. I have a
ticket that gets me in and out and a spacer that takes me there and
back."

"And that's your story?"

"That's my story. Finis." Farradyne sipped his drink and then offered
Cahill a smoke which Cahill took.

"We've had a rather moist spring," observed Cahill.

"It was moister on Venus," commented Farradyne.

"It's on Terra that the weather is fine," said Cahill. "The crops are
coming up excellently, I'm told. Nothing like fresh vegetables."

Farradyne nodded. "No matter how well we convert the planets to Terra
condition, nothing grows like on earth."

"Ever enjoy lying on your back in the sun in a field of flowers with
nothing to do but get sunburned?"

"Not for a long time."

"Funny how a guy gets out of his kid-habits," mused Cahill. "And even
funnier how he wants to go and do it all over again but never quite
makes it the same."

"Yeah."

"Farradyne, you're not sold up on this next jaunt to Terra, are you?"

"I've plenty of room. Just one passenger going to Denver."

"Mind if I buy a stateroom?"

"Not at all."

"I want to go pick flowers on Terra," yawned Cahill. "If you like,
maybe we can pick some together."

"Maybe we can," said Farradyne, draining his glass and starting to get
up. Cahill got up, too, and led the way out of the joint. Farradyne
flagged down a taxicab. "Spaceport," he told the driver. "Coming?" he
asked Cahill.

"Yeah. Might as well. Nothing else to do this week. I'll go along--for
kicks."




                                   5


Farradyne took the Lancaster up and set the ship on its course to
Terra. As soon as he could spare the time to think of anything but
handling the ship, he began to wonder about Norma and Mike Cahill.
She had not been visible when they arrived, but no doubt by now she
had made her presence known. It bothered him a bit because he was as
certain as a man can be that Cahill was a hellflower operator, and he
did not want the man to get cold feet because Farradyne was connected
with an addict, if even for a short hop.

So as soon as he could leave the board, Farradyne went down to the
salon.

They had met. Norma, for the first time in her trip with Farradyne, was
presiding over the dining table. She was wearing a slinky, sea-green
hostess gown Veed down to about here and slit on both sides to just
below the knees. Her white, bare legs twinkled as she walked and almost
forced the eye to follow them. She was giving Cahill all the benefit of
her physical beauty, and Cahill was enjoying it. Farradyne had a hunch
that Norma was about to start slipping him the old jealousy routine.
He wondered about his reaction. He was extremely wary of Norma, but he
did feel a sort of responsibility for her. She might make him jealous,
but it would not be the jealousy of passion or desire, but the jealous
concern that stems from a desire to protect.

Norma's lissome figure slipped out of the salon toward the galley and
as she disappeared Cahill wagged a forefinger at Farradyne.

"That dame's a blank," he said in a very low voice.

"I know. She's not my woman, Cahill."

"Maybe not," responded Cahill. "But it sure looks like it from a
distance. What are you doing with her?"

"Delivering her to her parents in Denver."

"That all?"

Farradyne nodded. "She latched onto me on Ganymede; she's the dame that
made the loud announcement of my being a hellflower runner."

"Maybe she's right."

"She isn't. I'm not."

Cahill grinned. "This much we know," he said.

"You do?"

"Yes. But maybe she'll be right sooner or later. But get rid of her,
see?"

Farradyne nodded vigorously. "That I'll do. She has been hell on high
heels to have around."

"Looks like she might be fun."

"She hates my guts."

Cahill nodded. "Probably. They usually end up in a case of anger and
violence. Tough. But--"

Norma came back with a tray and set food on the table. They ate in
silence, with Norma still giving Cahill the full power of her charm.
Cahill, who had undoubtedly seen many a hellflower girl, still seemed
to enjoy her advances although he accepted them with a calloused,
self-assured smile. Once dinner was finished, Norma began to clear the
table. This act annoyed Farradyne because he could not account for it,
and the only thing that seemed to fit the case was the possibility
that Norma was acting as she did to soften his wariness of her, but
she was carrying the thing too far. He did not think she was so unable
to calculate; she must know that this act now pointed up her former
disdain for any kind of cooperation.

As she left again, Farradyne turned to Cahill and asked, "How can a man
tell a love lotus from a gardenia?"

"That takes experience, Farradyne. You'll learn."

"The thing that stops me," said Farradyne, "is that the Sandmen have
been trying to stamp the things out for about forty years and they
can't even tell where they come from."

"They'll never find out," said Cahill. "Maybe you won't either."

"But I--"

"Better you shouldn't. Just enjoy living off the edges. It's safer that
way. Remember that."

"Where are we going after we leave Denver?"

"I'm not too sure we're going anywhere. I'm not too sure of you,
Farradyne. You've some holes to fill in." Cahill lit a cigarette and
leaned back, letting the smoke trickle through his nostrils. "I don't
mind talking to you this way because it would be your word against
mine, if you happen to be a Sandman. Some of your tale rings true. The
rest sticks hard."

"For instance?"

"Well, let's suppose you are a Sandman. Humans are a hard-boiled lot,
but somehow I can't see killing thirty-three people just to establish
a bad reputation. So that tends to clear your book. As to the chance
of your laying low for four years until the mess blew over, I might
buy that except for the place. A guy who can ultimately turn up with
enough oil to grease his way into a reinstated license and a late model
Lancaster Eighty-One isn't likely to spend four interim years living in
a fungus field."

"Maybe I hit it rich?"

Cahill laughed roughly. "Dug up a platinum-plated toad-stool?"

"Maybe I just met up with the right guy."

"Blackmail?"

"That's a nasty word, Cahill."

"Sure is. What did he do?"

"Let's call it maligning. Let's say he played rough at the wrong time
and might have to pay high for it at the present." Farradyne looked at
the ceiling. "And maybe that isn't it."

Cahill laughed. "Have it your way, Farradyne. Well, tell me, do we have
a layover at Denver, or is it better if we take off immediately for
Mercury?"

"Cinnabar or Hell City?"

"Cinnabar, if it makes any difference."

"Mercury, Schmercury, I didn't know there was anything there but the
central heating plant."

"Isn't much," admitted Cahill. "But enough. The--"

His voice trailed away as Norma's high heels came clicking up the
circular stairway, back toward the salon. "I thought I'd have a
cigarette and a drink with company before I go to bed," she announced
in a tone of voice that Farradyne had not heard her use before. With
gracious deftness, Norma made three highballs of White Star and water
and handed two of them to the men. She let her fingers linger over
Farradyne's very briefly, and over Cahill's longer. She lounged in
a chair across from them, all curves and softness, with only that
strange, disinterested look in her eyes to give her away.

Farradyne found this a bit difficult to explain to himself. The evening
had been a series of paradoxes; Norma's change from vixen to the lady
of languid grace did not ring true. He had been aware of her ability
to reason coldly, brought about by her burned-out emotional balance
which was so dulled that her thinking was mechanically unemotional and
therefore inclined to be frightfully chilled logic. But Farradyne's
grasp of the problem was incomplete. Norma had claimed that she knew
the emotions by name and definition, that once she had felt them, but
that now she only knew how they worked. Farradyne found it hard to
believe that she was so well-schooled in her knowledge that she could
put on the act of having them when she obviously did not.

She did not even force herself upon them; when her cigarette and her
drink were gone, Norma got up, excused herself and quietly went below.

"Me too," said Cahill.

Farradyne led him down to a stateroom and waved him in. "See you in the
morning," he said. Cahill nodded his goodnight and Farradyne went on to
his own room to think.

He hadn't done bad. Of course he did not really know how far some of
Clevis' other operators had gone, but Farradyne had been on the trail
for less than a hundred hours and already had a lead. Obviously the
fact of the Semiramide was the tip-off; no Sandman would go that far to
establish a shady reputation.

Farradyne was prepared to go as far as he had to. The idea of actually
running love lotus was not appealing, but the SAND office had been
fighting the things for a half century, watching helplessly while
the moral fibre of the race was being undermined by the nasty things
and somehow it was far better to let a few more lives be wrecked by
hellflowers than to save a few and let the whole thing steamroll
into monumental destruction. Farradyne still had to duck a few people
who might like to nail his hide to a barn door, but sooner or later he
would come out on top of this mess and then he could look his fellow
man in the eye and ask him to forget one bad mistake--that wasn't even
Farradyne's so far as he himself knew.

Being on his first step eased his mind somewhat. He would be rid of
Norma in the morning sometime and on his way with Cahill, and the
future looked interesting, if not cheerful. He went to sleep easily for
the first time since the meeting with Norma on Ganymede. He dreamed a
pleasant dream of freedom and success that ended with the bark of a
pistol.

Shocked out of his sleep, he lay stunned and blinking for a moment, and
then leaped out of bed and raced to the corridor. The light blinded him
first, but not enough to stop him from seeing Cahill.

Cahill came along the tiny corridor listlessly, blood dribbling
from under his left arm, running down his fingers and splashing
on the floor. On Cahill's face was a stunned expression, full of
incomprehension, semi-blank. Blood ran down his leg, across his ankle
and left red footprints on the floor.

Through the haze that clouded Cahill's eyes, he saw Farradyne. He
stumbled forward and reached out, but collapsed like a limp towel, to
stretch out at Farradyne's feet like a tired baby. His voice sighed out
in a dying moan that sounded like a rundown phonograph ... and then the
shocking rattle of death.

Steps behind him came Norma Hannon. Her eyes were blazing with an
unholy satisfied light and her body was alive and sinuous. A tiny
automatic dangled from her right hand. Her lips curled in a sneer as
she came up to Cahill and poked at the dead man's hand with her bare
foot.

"He--" she started to cry in a strident tone. Then the semi-hysteria
faded and she looked down at Cahill again, relishing the idea.

Farradyne shuddered. Cahill probably had not been able to do more than
clutch at the deep neckline of Norma's nightgown.

He leaned back against the wall and saw things in a sort of horrid slow
motion. Under any normal circumstances, no jury in the solar system
would have listened to an attempt to prosecute her. Under any normal
circumstances, Farradyne could bury Cahill at space and report the
incident at the first landing. But Farradyne couldn't stand too much
investigation. Norma Hannon was a hellflower addict, a "blank," in
Cahill's words; she couldn't bear investigation.

Worst of all was the loss of Cahill.

"Why?" asked Farradyne, bitterly.

"He--" Her eyes opened wide again as she relived the scene, relished
the violence.

"Have your fun," gritted Farradyne.

"I hoped it was you," she said. "I wouldn't have killed you." Her voice
was calm, she might have been saying "kiss" instead of "kill." "Him I
did not like."

"And you like me?"

"You I save to hate tomorrow," she said with matter-of-fact flatness.

"Why didn't you save him?"

"What was he to you?"

"He was my source."

"Source?" Norma looked blank. Then understanding crossed her face.
"Hellblossoms," she said with a sneer that twisted her face. She
stepped past Cahill's body and handed the automatic to Farradyne, who
took it dumbly because it was proffered. She went on into the salon and
sat down.

Farradyne wanted to hurt her, to reach through that wall and make her
feel something besides anger.

"Source," he nodded, following her. "Love lotus. I'd have given you
one, Norma."

She made a sound like a bitter laugh. "No good, Farradyne. What good is
one lotus?"

"I don't know," he said simply. "I've never had one."

Her laugh was shrill and insane. Then she bawled at him like a
fishwife. "What an operator you are. You big, fumbling boob with your
stolen spacer and your forged license, making like a big wind. Fah!"

She got up as suddenly as she had sat down. She paused on her way down
the corridor to kick Cahill's leg. Farradyne stayed where he was until
he heard her door slam shut. He should be moved, thought Farradyne.

He found himself looking down on the dead man with a strangely detached
feeling, as though he were watching a play. He relived the scene
although he tried to shut it out of his mind. Shutting out would not
work, so he went through it detail by detail minutely, from the sound
of the pistol shot to the last dying groan from Cahill's throat. The
memory of that dying wail jarred on Farradyne's nerves.

It was a discordant cry.

He found himself making a completely useless analysis, itemizing things
that surely could not matter. The cry had been a discord. His mind
wandered a bit as he considered the word. A series of atonal notes do
not make a discord. A discord comes when atonal notes are sounded at
the same time. The former can be pleasant to the ear, the latter not.

And then a chill hit him. He felt like a man who had just been told
that he had one more question to answer before winning the prize on a
quiz show. Cahill's moan had been a full discord.

With a sudden disconnect of the mind, Farradyne was back in the
Semiramide, hearing three voices behind him. They found one skeleton,
afterwards. Then his mind leaped to Brenner, on Mars, who had emitted
an approving grunt when he saw Norma come around the tail structure
of the Lancaster with the sun shining through her skirt. He had no
proof, no proof. Brenner's grunt had been no discord but nonetheless a
mingling of tones. Three voices? Maybe more?

Maybe he was not sure of the first. Brenner's voice had been very
brief, maybe he was convincing himself. But Cahill's death cry was most
certainly polytonal. And they were both lotus operators.

It might mean something, or it might not. Farradyne put his head back
and tried to hum and say something at the same time. Perhaps the stunt
could be cultivated after much practice, and perhaps it was used as a
password.

More than anything, Farradyne needed corroboration.

It was a very weak reed, but he stepped over Cahill's body and rapped
on Norma's door.

She opened the door after a moment and said, "Now what?"

"Norma, you claim I owe you something, but I think you now owe me
something."

She made a scornful sound. "For killing your little chum out there?"

"Maybe," he said as shortly as he knew how.

"Go on, Farradyne, but make it good."

He looked down into her glazed eyes, hoping to see some flicker of
expression that showed some interest in anything.

"Norma, you've a good, logical mind. Tell me, did you notice anything
about Cahill's last cry?"

"No."

"Nothing odd?"

"I've not seen men die very often. What was strange about it?" The eyes
unglazed a bit, but Farradyne could not tell whether this was awakened
interest or merely the recapture of the feeling she had enjoyed before.

"It sounded to me like a discordant moan."

"It was discordant."

"Not the way I mean. It sounded to me like there were three or four
tones all going at once."

She snorted derisively. "Let me shoot you. I'll make a recording of
your death cry and we'll see how well you sing."

"I'm serious."

"Stop beating that dead horse," she told him flatly. "It's the same
chorus you used to sing about the three men in your control room,
remember?"

"Brenner made a sound like that, too," he said.

"A pig-like sound," she said scornfully. "Forget it, Farradyne. You've
convinced nobody but yourself, and your evidence consists of one man
surprised at the sight of a good-looking woman and one man whose throat
was coming apart in death. Forget it." She shut the door to her room in
his face abruptly.

Farradyne looked down at Cahill's body with regret. Not that Cahill's
death touched him in any way but mild shock and distress at the loss of
his link to the hellblossom gang. A gunman and a love lotus operator
was not likely to have his absence noticed among the kind of people who
could afford to start asking a lot of questions of the officials, and
there might be a fair chance that Cahill's disappearance would cause
the same people to ask a question or two of Farradyne.

He would have liked to keep the body. But hauling a slain corpse--he
did not consider it murder--into a doctor's office and asking for an
autopsy on the throat could not be done. Nor could Farradyne do it
himself. He could perform a fair job of setting a broken bone and he
could treat a burn or a cut, but he would not recognize a larynx if he
saw it. And although he knew better intellectually, he instinctively
considered a vocal cord as a stretched string of some sort that
vibrated in the air-stream.

Distastefully Farradyne hauled the body to the scuttle-port and
consigned it to space with a terse, "See you in hell, Cahill."




                                   6


The Lancaster came down at Denver. Before Farradyne had the landing
ramp out, a spaceport buggy came careening across the field to stop
almost at the base of the ship.

"Farradyne?" asked the man.

"You're the Bennington Detective Agency man?"

"Sidney Kingman," said the other, showing Farradyne a small case with
identification card and license. "Where is she?"

"Inside."

Kingman handed Farradyne an envelope. He pocketed it and led Kingman
into the salon. Norma was there, sitting on the divan, smoking.

"Miss Hannon, Mr. Kingman."

"Another one of your friends?" she sneered.

"No. He's one of yours."

"I have no friends."

"Yes, you have, Miss Hannon. I have come to take you home."

Norma leaped to her feet. "You good-for-nothing bum!" she screeched at
Farradyne. "Why did you do it?"

"You wouldn't leave me alone, Norma," said Farradyne softly. "So I've
brought you home where they'll take care of you and keep you out of my
hair."

"I'll come after you!" she raved. "I'll get you for this!"

"Not if I see you first," he told her. "This is it."

"Why do you hurt everything you touch?" she cried.

"Now who?"

"Me." For the first time, Farradyne saw tears of genuine sorrow. There
was anger at him, too, but remorse there was a-plenty. "Why hurt my
people!" she asked. "Why can't they just call me dead and let it go at
that? I'm worse than dead."

Then her face froze again and she looked at Kingman. "All right," she
said in a hard voice. "Let's go and hurt my folks to death. Let's get
it over with. You pair of money-grubbing ghouls."

She started toward the spacelock, waving her forefinger at Kingman, who
followed. Her face wore a coldly distant expression as she left the
Lancaster. Kingman's driver took them off. She did not turn back to
look at Farradyne.

And that was that. Farradyne retracted the ramp, closed the spacelock
and not long afterwards hiked the ship into the sky and headed for
Mercury.




                                   7


Cinnabar was inside the sunlight zone by a thousand miles and its
sun was always in the same spot of the sky. It was a well-contrived
city, built so that the streets were lighted either directly or by
reflections. Cinnabar was also one of the show-cities of the system,
but Farradyne found that it did not show him the right things. He could
have learned as much about hellflowers on Terra merely because New York
had a larger public library.

He tried everything he could think of but made no progress. His trail
had turned to ice after Cahill's death. He loafed and he poked his
nose in here and there and drank a bit and varied his routine from
man-about-town to the spaceman concerned about his future. There was
only one bright spot--his listing had been tentatively taken up by a
group of schoolteachers on a sabbatical, who had seen Mercury and now
wanted a cheap trip to Pluto.

Farradyne had accepted this job for about three weeks later. It gave
him a payload to Pluto, and when he got there it would be time to
do the subcontracting job Clevis had set up as a combined source of
revenue and a means of contact. Once each month Farradyne was to haul a
shipment of refined thorium ore from Pluto to Terra, a private job that
paid well. In the meantime Farradyne could nose around Mercury to see
what he could see. Then he could haul his schoolteachers to Pluto and
pick up his thorium, which definitely made his actions look reasonably
normal to the official eye.

On the end of the drums of semi-refined thorium there would be a spot
of fluorescent paint, normally invisible. He was to wash off this spot
so long as he had nothing to report. If it remained, then something
was wrong with Farradyne; he had not turned up or he had something to
report. Clevis would know what to do next.

And so Farradyne watched the date grow closer and closer and his hopes
of having something to report grow less and less likely. He felt
as though he had been given up, in fact he got to the point where
he wondered how a man could get a love lotus if he wanted one. The
prevalence of the dope seemed high enough, but as far as Farradyne was
concerned it was harder than buying a real gold brick. There did not
seem to be any for sale. He thought that perhaps his method of attack
was wrong, and yet he did not know how to correct it.

He cursed under his breath at the futility of it, and realized that his
curse must have been audible because he felt a touch on his elbow and a
voice asking, "Is it that bad?"

He turned slowly, his mind working fast to think of something to say
that would not be leading in the wrong direction. "I was--" he started,
and then he saw that the voice which had been low-pitched enough to
have been the voice of a man had come from the throat of a tall,
dark-haired woman who sat beside him at the bar. "Just wondering what
strangers do for excitement on Mercury," he finished lamely.

"Spaceman?"

"Yes."

"I guessed it." She laughed in her low contralto. "But spacemen aren't
the only ones who drink that watered-down whiskey."

"I know. But this time it is one."

She smiled again. "Is Cinnabar so inhospitable?" she asked.

"To strangers it seems so."

"To me it seems quite normal. It makes the rest of the solar system
sound like a very exciting place."

"Born on Mercury?"

"No," she said, shaking her head. "I was born on Venus. I spent four
years on Terra before my folks brought me to Mercury. But my last space
trip took place when I was nine. Tell me, what is New York like?"

"Buildings and people and mad rushing around. Any change in the last
hundred years has been for taller buildings, more people and a higher
velocity of humanity. But anybody can find anything he wants somewhere
in New York, if he has the money to buy it."

She smiled calmly. "I'll show you that Cinnabar is not an inhospitable
place," she said. "You may take me to dinner if you wish."

"I wish," he chuckled. "And since we haven't a mutual friend to
introduce us, I'm Charles Farradyne."

"How do you do?" she said solemnly, putting a lithe hand in his. "I'm
Carolyn Niles." She took a little step out from the bar and made him a
slight curtsey. He saw that she was almost as tall as he was, and he
grinned as he thought that her figure was far better than his.

"How shall we meet?" he asked.

"We shall not meet," said Carolyn. "We shall play it very bright and
very interesting. You shall drive me home where we will have cocktails
with my folks and you will meet them. You will be an old friend of
Michael's, who is a sort of school-chum of my brother. After cocktails
I will run upstairs to change and you will make polite conversation
with my family--none of whom eat personable young men, though they may
scare them to death by having Father show them the fine collection of
Terran shotguns he owns. Then we will go out to your spacecraft, and
you will change while I roam around and investigate the insides. This I
will like because it's been some time since I have seen the insides of
a spacer."

"Done," agreed Farradyne.

Something rapped him on the elbow and he had to look down before he saw
a boy of ten or so with a green-paper lined box containing flowers. The
young merchant had an eye for business; he eyed Farradyne knowingly and
smiled at Carolyn fetchingly. "Corsage? One dollar."

Farradyne grinned and then almost recoiled before he realized that
nowhere in the solar system could a love lotus be purchased for a
dollar. These were definitely gardenias. He bought one to cover up
his confusion, and handed it to Carolyn. She pinned the gardenia in
her dark hair as she smiled her thanks, then led him from the bar to
an open roadster almost as low and long as the curb it was parked
against. Carolyn handed him her keys and Farradyne drove according to
her directions until they came to a rather large rambling house just
outside the city limits.

She introduced him, and he was received graciously. Her father was a
tall, distinguished man with a dab of gray at the temples and a rather
stern face that became completely unstern whenever he smiled, which was
frequently. Carolyn's mother was tall and dark with only a sprinkle of
gray. The brother was not present, which made it completely easy for
Farradyne who could not have given any account of his friendship for
the unknown Michael, stated friend of Robert Niles.

Mr. Niles mixed a pitcher of martinis and inquired about the spaceman
business. Farradyne explained how it was. Mrs. Niles laughed at his
story of fish one day and fins the next and said that she thought
it couldn't be quite that bad, really. Farradyne grinned. Mr. Niles
observed that a man who can operate a spacer and pay off a mortgage on
the craft must not be entirely penniless or without prospects.

Mrs. Niles countered with, "I suppose it takes money to operate, Mr.
Farradyne."

"A fair amount. A spaceman begins to think in large figures so much
that he wonders how he can get along on a more humanly reasonable
amount. To clear a reasonable standard of living, a rather staggering
amount of money comes in one hand and goes out the other. Operating
expenses are high, but so are charges."

"But do you land on Mercury often, Mr. Farradyne?"

Farradyne smiled. "Perhaps less frequently in the past than in the
future."

"Now that's sheer flattery," laughed Carolyn.

"Better enjoy it," observed her father with a chuckle. "Charles, you
are welcome here any time you land."

"Thank you," smiled Farradyne. "But all things considered, I should
think that you'd take a dim view of any man that brought your daughter
home wearing a gardenia."

"Gardenia? Oh. You mean that it might be--" Mr. Niles laughed. "I think
that Carolyn has enough judgment to take up with the right kind of
young man, Charles."

"Of course," said Mrs. Niles. "Robert and Michael wouldn't stay friends
with the wrong kind."

"So you see?" laughed Mr. Niles.

"By the way," asked Mrs. Niles. "How is Michael?"

"Quite well, the last time I saw him," said Farradyne, quite sure that
this was the right thing to say at any time.

"You're sure?"

"Of course."

"I'm very happy to hear it," said Mrs. Niles. "We knew he was with you,
but we didn't know how long he stayed."

Farradyne gulped imperceptibly, and he hoped that they did not notice.
"You did? Then he must have mentioned me."

"Oh, he did. Tell me, Charles, what happened to Michael?"

"Did something happen to him?"

Mr. Niles eyed Farradyne rather pointedly. "Mike took off with you from
Mars. He did not land at Denver, Mr. Farradyne. So what happened to
Mike Cahill?"

Farradyne gulped, and this time it was a full-throated gulp that left
him with his Adam's apple high in his throat.

Carolyn cooed, "Yes, Charles, what happened to Michael Cahill?"

A shiver crossed Farradyne's nerves and he felt the muscle-loosening
tingle of fear. His thinking mechanism stopped functioning. His mind
buzzed with a frenetic insistence that he say something, but he was
completely unprepared. And he dimly knew that his long speechlessness
was as damning as any story he could have prepared after such a pause.
He thought all the way around in a circle, coming back to the fact that
he should say something but that his mind was so busy insisting that he
fill in this bizarre event that it did not furnish him with anything to
say.

Then it occurred to him that he need not say anything. The die had
been cast and he stood accused, twice; once by the Niles family and
once by his own shocked reaction. What he must do was act for the next
moment because the passed moment was irreparable. One of two things was
evident: either Cahill was a double-dealing rat or the man was hand in
glove with the Niles and that meant--

Farradyne laughed at his own simplicity. It was a sort of brief,
scornful bark.

"What is funny?" asked Mr. Niles.

"It just occurred to me--the brilliant concept that you people are
either innocent or guilty."

"Very sage," commented Niles drily. "You don't seem quite that bright,
Mr. Farradyne. Not even that bright. Now, what happened to Cahill?"

Only for a fleeting moment did Farradyne follow the possibility that
Niles was innocent. There had been no attempt on Cahill's part to
contact anybody from the time Farradyne met him until he saw him last
alive. Ergo, the Niles must have been forearmed with Cahill's plan.
This was the place that Cahill would have brought him; it had just
taken him a bit longer to get here without the proper guide.

He leaned back, trying to relax. He took a sip of his martini, not that
he wanted it, but to see if his hand were still trembling. It did not
seem to shake.

He said, "If you knew Cahill and his whereabouts, you also know quite
a bit about me. You'll have heard that I was recognized in a bar on
Ganymede by a woman named Norma Hannon, who is a hellflower addict. She
hated my guts because I am Charles Farradyne and her brother was among
those present when I had the accident in The Bog. She hung onto me for
the emotional ride it gave her. I succeeded in locating the home of her
parents and was going to take her home when I met Cahill, who offered
to come along after a bit of talk. Then during the night, Cahill made a
pass at Norma, and she shot him. I put his body out through the scuttle
port."

"Cahill was always a damned fool," nodded Niles. "He was a dame-crazy
idiot and it served him right. Some men prefer money, power or model
railroads. Women are poison."

"I seem to have followed one of them like a little lamb," said
Farradyne. "But I was picked up and brought here for a purpose, so
let's get down to cases."

"You're a rather quick-on-the-trigger man, aren't you? What makes you
assume that this purpose was anything beyond finding out about Cahill?"

"Because you have tipped your hand," said Farradyne feeling more at
ease. "You could have accomplished the same thing by tipping the
police and waiting for the case to be newscast. If Cahill admitted to
hellflower running, it was for a purpose, too. I call the same logic in
you, Niles."

"Please. _Mister_ Niles. I'm a bit your senior."

"All right. Mr. Niles. I've learned one thing so far: I can tell a love
lotus operator from the rest of the system."

"How?" They all leaned forward eagerly.

"Because it is the real operators that take an amused view of my
alleged machinations. They know the facts."

"Very sage. You are a bit brighter than you appeared a moment ago."

"May I ask why you let me cool my heels for almost a month before you
hauled me in?" He looked at Carolyn with a wry smile. "I would make
a mild bet you weren't more than a few hundred feet from me all the
while?"

"You are a blind man, Farradyne," she said calmly.

Mr. Niles smiled knowingly. "There are a lot of unexplained items
in your past, Farradyne. We never could be too sure that you were
not a Sandman. Of course, it does seem a bit hard to believe that a
government operative would crash a spacer and kill thirty-three people
just to establish a bad reputation, especially when his own neck was
involved in the affair. Still, such a deal might have been managed. So
we have been checking on you and from that angle you are clean. Then
comes the question of Cahill. It might be that you thought turning in a
hellflower operator would help to smooth your lot in life, mayhap get
you a bit of a reward. So we waited. No Cahill. Cahill started to bring
you here; he would either have turned up with or without you. Or he
would have gotten in touch with us. Unless Cahill was dead. You would
know the answer. Norma Hannon is keeping her mouth shut, so far as we
know. Of course no one would believe a blank anyway, and she probably
knows that. So it stands to reason that you know more about Cahill than
anybody else."

"No more than I've told you. Cahill came and made me a sort of sidelong
offer."

"That much of it rings as true as the other. But there are still holes
in your story."

Farradyne nodded. "Let's put it this way: there are ways of getting
money and things. I found one way, which is an obvious fact. But I have
been told time and again that the entering wedge to a full confession
is a willingness to talk. Do you follow me?"

"I do. But--"

Farradyne smiled. "I don't care to face it. Not in company, Mr. Niles."
Farradyne's emphasis on the "Mister" was heavy with sarcasm. Niles
looked at him piercingly.

"You are a bit belligerent and a trifle sure of yourself. Close-mouthed
and apparently able to get along. You'll be out on a lonely limb for
some time, Farradyne, but we can use you."

"I can use the sugar," said Farradyne.

"Naturally. Anybody can use money. In fact everybody needs money. What
visible means of support have you?"

"I've a subcontract. Once each month I'm to lug a load of thorium
refines from Pluto to Terra."

"It's a start but it isn't enough."

"I'll pick up more, doubtless."

Niles leaned back and put the tips of his fingers together
pontifically. "One of the hardest jobs in this business is to justify
your standard of living. The financial rewards are large and the hours
involved are small. It is patent that a man who has not been granted a
large inheritance or perhaps stumbled on a lucrative asteroid, cannot
live in a semi-royal manner without having to work in a semi-royal
fury. One of the great risks in this business is the acceptance of a
recruit whose appearance causes discussion. The day when a man can
build a fifty-thousand-dollar home on a five-thousand-dollar salary
without causing more than a raised eyebrow has gone. If a man has a
hidden income, he must appear busy enough to warrant it--or at least
provide a reasonable facsimile."

"This I can understand."

"For a job like this," explained Niles, "we prefer the natural-born
spaceman, with sand in his shoes or space dust in his eyes. Because
the man with a bad case of wanderlust always looks busy even when he
is idling. You seem to be that sort, but we never can tell until it is
tried. Unless, of course, you turn out to be woman-crazy."

"I'm a normal enough male," said Farradyne. "I'll remind you that
Cahill was the guy that tried and failed."

"How normal are you?" demanded Niles. "We'd have less liking for a
misogynist than for a satyr here."

Farradyne smiled serenely. "I have enough sense to keep my hands off
Norma Hannon, but I have enough red blood to come home with Carolyn.
That good enough?"

Niles thought a moment. "Could be. Anyway we'll find out. For one
thing, Farradyne, you'll be in no position to hurt anyone but yourself
if you're playing games. Once we're really sure of you, it won't matter
any more because you will be in a position to get hurt plenty. We'll
try it, and see. Now, when do you go to Pluto?"

"I've some schoolteachers to haul out there tomorrow. I've taken them
on--"

"Good. Gives you a good background without much labor. Now, when you
land on Terra, you'll not bother posting your ship for a job because
you have already contracted for a job. Carolyn will be there on a
business trip for me and will have chartered your ship for a hauling
job back to Mercury. During this trip you will get some more details on
how you are to operate. This much I can tell you now, Farradyne: you
will be an inbetweener, in fact almost the operator you set yourself up
to be. But with one difference, we'll inform you just who is and who is
not to be trusted. In other words, you'll have your regular customers
and you will sell to no one else. They'll take your entire supply,
pay for it and you will take your profit. The remainder you will use
to purchase your supply from the upper source. Advancement may come
slow or fast, depending on you. You'll get the details later, as for
now--" Niles leaned back in his chair and smiled. "Farradyne, you met
my daughter in a cocktail lounge and several people heard the two of
you planning an evening together. So you will go dancing and dining and
have a drink or two and maybe a bit of lovemaking, which is an entirely
natural performance. And from this moment you will be Charles and I
shall be Mr. Niles and we'll have no nonsense. Understand?"

"I do."

"Good. Now have another martini while Carolyn dresses for dinner."

Niles poured. Carolyn disappeared. Mrs. Niles leaned forward and
asked, "Charles, why did you become a spaceman?" Her tone of voice and
attitude made her seem like all the other fathers and mothers who have
asked the same question. For the moment he forgot about her position
in this odd scheme of things just because she looked precisely fitted
to the role she played for public consumption. Almost mechanically,
Farradyne began to explain. He knew the story by rote because he had
told it so often in the same manner and to the same sort of person.
This gave his mind a chance to consider them, partly.

Mr. and Mrs. Niles appeared to be the successful businessman and his
wife. The aura of respectability extended to include the house and
its spacious grounds, so that Farradyne burned with resentment at any
proposition whereby he, who had not committed anything more than a few
misdemeanors and some rather normal fun and games which are listed on
the books but are likely to be overlooked, should be less cultured,
less successful and less poised than this family of low-grade vultures.
If anything, the attitude of Mrs. Niles shocked him more than the acts
of her husband. Men were the part of the race that play the rough games
and run up the score, according to Farradyne. Women occupied one of
two positions: they were patterned after Farradyne's mother who had
been a poised, mature woman of education and breeding, if a trifle
puritanical; or they were slatterns and sluts and they looked as well
as acted the part. So instead of Mrs. Niles presiding over the mansion
as a gracious lady, she should be loud and cheap. That she was poised
and gracious offended Farradyne's sense of fitness.

As for Carolyn, who was equally engaged in this loathsome game,
Farradyne felt annoyed because there was nothing about her outward
appearance that would permit him to scorn her. Like her parents, she
gave the impression of success, as though the business they were all
engaged in were both honorable and beneficial. Farradyne yearned for
the moment when he could pull the pedestal out from under them and dump
them into the mud where they damned well belonged.

Farradyne became, in those few moments, a more mature man. He
understood Clevis' attitude. Always before, he wondered why a clever
man would work for peanuts at a thankless job which included anonymity
when he could have put his efforts into some sort of business and
emerge wealthy and famous. Now Farradyne was beginning to understand
the personal satisfaction that could be gained by following in the
footsteps of a man like Clevis. In Niles' own words, some men like
money, others like power and still others build model railroads. Well,
some achieve their personal gain by rooting out the lice that undermine
the moral fiber of the race, and this gives them the same satisfaction
that amassing a billion dollars gives a man whose ambition is wealth.

Money had never been Farradyne's god. He had not wanted more than
enough to exchange for the fun and games he preferred, and these
did not come high. He found himself elated to have discovered a new
outlet for his nervous energy and his urge to do something. Performing
a thankless job in anonymity could provide for Farradyne a deep
satisfaction in proving that he was smarter than people like Niles and
family.

He smiled as his mouth got to the point in his story where he was
telling about the time he had landed the training ship perfectly--but
nine feet above ground, so that the ship dropped the nine feet and
nearly flunked him out of spaceman's school. He knew that his smile was
hypocritical and he enjoyed this sort of thing. If Niles could play
the hypocritical game, so could Farradyne. But Farradyne could play
it better because his own kind of hypocrisy was--he hated to call it
righteous but could not find a better word to describe it. He could
play Niles' game, and he could even go along with Mrs. Niles, although
he wondered how a woman that looked as honorable as Mrs. Niles could
justify her willingness to have a daughter engaged in the vile game
of hellflower running. He could play their game because he would have
little contact with them.

But he wondered whether he could play the game Carolyn expected. He
did not know exactly what she expected but his guess was that anybody
amoral enough to run dope would hardly cavil at anything else. He
knew that many a man could lie in his teeth and play the role of spy
convincingly, but when the role included making love to a woman whose
background was distasteful to a man, Farradyne believed that this
distaste would show through anything he did.

And then Carolyn came down the stairs in a white strapless evening
dress and Farradyne knew that he was going to have trouble remembering
that she was worthy of only shapeless, gray prison denim. "You have to
dress, too, Charles," she said in a soft voice, reminding him of their
plans for the evening.

Farradyne nodded and got up. He wondered how she could possibly act
this part of a young, marriageable woman pleased with a date when
at the same time she was engaged in a hellishly illegal operation.
He realized at the same time that Carolyn had most likely spent her
entire life this way and was attuned to it. Such was her natural way of
living, and there was not going to be any possibility of weaning her
into a life of honorable struggle.

Then she put her hand into his elbow and gave a little squeeze and
Farradyne found it not too hard to put his personal attitude into a
small compartment in his mind and half-close the door. The bait was
very attractive and only the image of Norma Hannon and her dulled eyes
remained with Farradyne to keep that compartment of his mind open to
the character of Carolyn Niles.




                                   8


In the salon of the Lancaster, Farradyne smiled knowingly. "The plan
was to let you investigate this ship while I dressed, but I gather you
have seen your share of spacers."

"I admit it," she replied. "For that I am sorry, Charles. But I
couldn't very well have played the know-it-all, could I?"

"I suppose not. Well, park yourself somewhere while I get into whites."

She sat down and stretched. "A highball and a cigarette?" she inquired.

"The cigarette is easy," he said, handing one to her and flipping his
lighter. "But the highball may be more difficult. I've nothing but
White Star Trail aboard."

She nodded at him. "With water," she said. She relaxed into the
cushions. Farradyne went and mixed her highball. She sipped it and
nodded approvingly. "Charles, please go dress but fast--I am rather
more hungry than curious about the insides of a spacer."

"Of course." He turned to go.

"Charles?" She rose and came forward, lifting her hands to put them on
his shoulders. He stood woodenly. "Charles," she asked in a soft voice,
"are you unhappy because I am not the girl you hoped I'd be?"

Farradyne wanted to hurt her. "How many men have you played this role
for?" he asked.

A wry smile twisted her face. "I should slap your face for that," she
said. "Because when I tell you the answer you won't believe me."

Caution came to him. He was the rookie hellflower operator, not the
young man who has discovered that his girl has been playing games
behind his back. He tried to fit himself into her picture and decided
that according to her code of loused-up ethics she might possibly be
thinking of a future: a pleasant home with rambling roses and a large
lawn and a devoted husband and maybe a handful of happy children all
creating the solid-citizen facade for dope running, just as her parents
were doing. If this were the case, Farradyne was to play the suitor.
He must carry roses for his wife in one hand, toys for the kids in the
other and his hip pocket must be filled with hellflowers.

He played it. He relaxed and put his hands on her waist. "I admit
to being a bit of a louse," he said with a brief laugh. "But that's
because I'm a bit new at a very rough game."

She leaned forward a bit. "Even rough games have their rules."

"I'll play according to the rules as soon as I learn them."

She looked at him. "You know them," she said quietly. "All men and
women learn them at home, in school, in church. They're sensible
rules and they keep people out of trouble, mostly. If you adhere to
the rules, people will have nothing to which their attention can be
directed. That's what Father was trying to say when he suggested that
you provide a visible means of support for yourself. Play by these
rules and we'll get along. It's especially important when we must not
have people looking in our direction, Charles."

She sighed and leaned against him softly. "You asked me a question,
Charles. The answer is three. One of them preferred a blonde and they
are living quietly and happily on Callisto. The second couldn't have
jelled because he was the kind of man who would work eighteen hours a
day. Some men are that way and some women like it that way, but not
me. The third, Charles, was Michael. Mike didn't last long. Only long
enough to prove to me that he was a woman-chaser. The fourth could be
you, and maybe there mightn't be a fifth."

"Three men in your life," he said.

She smiled up into his eyes. "Three men in my life," she said with a
happy little nod of her head, "but, Charles, it isn't three men in my
bedroom." Carolyn cocked an eyebrow. "The only way the fourth will get
in is to make sure there won't be a fifth. So now you know. You can
play it from there."

His arms did not slip around the slender waist, but the hands pulled
her close to him. He kissed her gently, and for a moment she clung to
him with her body. Her response was affectionate, only bordering on
passion. Then she leaned back and smiled into his face. "You need a
shave," she told him. "So let go of me until you can kiss me without
scratching my skin off." Then to prove that she didn't really mean it,
Carolyn kissed him again briefly, and ended it by rubbing her forehead
against his chin.

Farradyne went to his stateroom and showered. He shaved, and dressed
carefully in white slacks and shirt, and the last remaining holdover
from a Victorian period, a dark necktie. He returned to the salon to
find Carolyn waiting for him calmly and patiently. She looked him over
and nodded approvingly, then got up and rubbed her cheek against his,
cooing pleasantly, but moved away again when he tried to kiss her.

Then she tucked her hand under his elbow and said, "Dinner, man-thing."

Farradyne chuckled. "Dinner," he repeated.

She hugged his arm. He led her down the landing ramp and into her car,
and at her direction drove to her preference in a dinner spot. The food
was good. Carolyn was a fine dancer with a high sense of rhythm and a
graceful body. Farradyne decided that if this were a thankless job that
gave no chance for fame and fortune, there were plenty of very pleasant
facets to it.... Her shoulder rubbed his as he drove her home hours
later.

He handed her out of the car and walked to the front door with her. She
gave him her key and he opened the door; she walked in, to wait for
him just inside. She came into his arms as the door closed behind them
and she clung to him, returning his kiss and his embrace; matching his
rising fervor with a passion of her own. They parted minutes afterward.
Farradyne moved her slightly, settling her body into a more comfortable
fit against him.

"It's late," she breathed.

Farradyne chuckled. "With the sun shining like that?"

She kissed him, amused. "It's always like that, silly. You're on
Mercury, remember?"

Farradyne held her close and kissed her again. A minute passed before
he came up for air. He looked at her, leaning his head back so that he
could see her face without looking crosseyed. "I'll bet you are a real
hellion in the dark."

Carolyn laughed, and shook her head. "Like all the rest of the women
on Mercury, I'm scared to pieces of the dark. But it is late, Charles,
and you've just got to go." She hugged his head down so that he could
look at her wrist watch on the arm about his neck. "It's five o'clock
and you are to take off at nine. Charles, please don't crack up just
because of lack of sleep."

"Okay," he said regretfully, "okay."

She held him close. "It's been a nice evening, Charles. So kiss me
good-bye, and remember that it won't be long until I see you on Terra."

"It gets dark on Terra," he told her. He tightened his arms and she
pressed against him.

Against his lips she murmured, "I might not be afraid of the dark,
Charles."

The promise of her last embrace stayed with him. There were only three
hours of sleep between the time he left her and the time of awakening
for the take-off, but dreams of Carolyn filled them all. They were
pleasant dreams and they were unpleasant dreams; he saw Carolyn coming
to him with her past renounced, he saw her coming to him as a secret
agent who was in the hellish business for the same reason he was. And
he dreamed of her waving him a good-bye with her dark eyes filled
with tears as she was taken off to the Titan Penal Colony. He even
entertained notion of joining her, justifying himself by thinking that
people who fall in love with love lotus addiction are the weaklings of
the human race and could be eradicated to the advantage of the general
level. This he recognized as sophistry.

But, be it as it may, Carolyn was a pleasant, attractive companion,
and if her presence could only be known for a very short time, it was
none the less pleasant. It was a rough game they were playing and many
people were bound to get hurt. More people--innocent people--would
get hurt if he called it off. So by the time Farradyne and his dreams
came to the conclusion that he could afford to take what pleasure out
of life this situation offered for the moment and let Tomorrow exact
its tribute, it was time to get out of bed and start the pre-flight
check-off.

He had work to do. Schoolmarms to haul to Pluto and some refined
thorium ore to bring to Terra. He would make no signal this trip, he
was still far from being on the inside. Maybe the next. Or the one
after that, depending upon his progress. But in the meantime he would
be seeing Carolyn Niles on Terra.

Farradyne began his check-up, already anticipating the reunion which
was at least ten days away.




                                   9


They came aboard a half hour later and Farradyne saw at once that
this trip would be free of trouble and danger. They were all mild and
wide-eyed curious. They obviously knew their place and how to go about
in life with a minimum of friction.

Their leader was a Professor Martin, an agile gentleman of about sixty
years who led them up the ramp and then stood there introducing each
and every one of them to Farradyne as they came in. They became a sea
of faces and a sound of disconnected names except for a few of the more
vivid ones. Miss Otis, who giggled like a schoolgirl but hadn't been of
schoolgirl age for at least thirty years; a Mr. Hughes, dark of skin
and smiling, who tried to convey the impression that he knew his way
around in space; a very prim dame named Miss Higginbotham who probably
had every kid in her class scared of her; a Mrs. Logan who was far too
beautiful to be part of Farradyne's narrow pattern for schoolteachers.
Miss Tilden seemed to know something about spacing, and her friend,
who was old enough to be Miss Tilden's mother, Miss Carewe, knew more
about spacing than Miss Tilden. And a Mr. Forbes who seemed completely
impressed by everything he laid eyes on.

And so they came, a prim and strait-laced lot, the like of which
Farradyne had not seen in a long, long time.

Certainly nothing of the hellflower flavor among this group. It made
Farradyne feel easier, and after a bit he began to smile at their
innocence and their wholehearted interest. He came to understand
that this trip was to be a bit different for them, or it could be if
he cared to make it so. It was obvious that their previous hops had
been made under pilots who treated them with the usual aloofness that
spacemen hold for their passengers. Farradyne felt more sympathetic
about them; he wanted to help, wanted to show them what could be seen.

Part of this desire to help them have a good time was born in the idea
that someday Farradyne would probably be looking for some character
witnesses and if he treated these schoolteachers with cordial interest
and a willingness to explain and demonstrate his spacecraft, they
would be inclined to accept him as a man of understanding, honesty and
ability.

They took off after Farradyne delivered a very short talk on the rigors
of take-off maneuvering and the necessity of staying strapped down
whenever the spacer was about to cut didoes.

It was even less of a strain than Farradyne anticipated. They helped.
Miss Carewe was a home economics teacher and she took care of the
galley in a highly efficient manner. Mr. Forbes taught manual training
or something of the sort; he requisitioned an oilcan and removed the
squeaks from a couple of doors and took care of some of the minor
details that Farradyne was inclined to ignore because he had other
things on his mind. Someone, Farradyne never found out who, made beds
and policed the ship, cleaning the salon and passengers' quarters
until the rooms and hallways shone. Whoever it was did not recognize
the faint stains of blood apparently, because there were no questions
asked about the evidence of Mike Cahill's death.

Miss Tilden spent quite a bit of time making a small oil painting for
the space above the bar which she said looked vacant. The degree of
their tolerance was high, too. None of them cared for drinking, but
they approved of Farradyne and his White Star Trail.

In return, Farradyne took them into the control room and showed them
how the ship was run. Professor Hughes toyed with the computer by the
hour because he was a mathematics teacher, and Miss Tilden listened to
Farradyne by the hour as he recounted some of his adventures in space
because she was a teacher of modern history.

The beautiful Mrs. Logan taught science, so Farradyne took her below to
explain the atomic pile and how it worked.

With a pre-recorded tape from the course computer running through the
autopilot, Farradyne pointed out the motion on the control rods that
regulated the activity of the pile. Above the pile, he explained, was
a huge tank of water that was used as a reaction-mass. Water was fed
through the pile and its energy was raised to some tremendous degree,
then hurled out through the throat of the reaction motor.

Mrs. Logan then pointed to the series of little ports in the hull.

Farradyne explained, "Now and then it is necessary to replace the
control rods because they become transmuted into metals that have too
little absorption factor. To get rid of them on a spaceport would mean
the trouble of disposing of quite a bit of metal that is dangerously
radioactive. So we take the convenient method of tossing them out in
space where they can't harm anything."

"But where do they land?" she asked. "Isn't that dangerous?"

"Not at all. We use discretion. Look. In a few hours we will be
halfway to Pluto. Our velocity will be tremendous because we have been
accelerating all the way from Mercury. To land on Pluto we'll have to
make a turn-over at halfway and start decelerating. If I wanted to
replace control rods, I'd do it just before turn-over. The velocity of
the ship and the rods would be a good many times the escape velocity
of the entire solar system, so the rods would continue on and on, and
actually they'd pass out of the solar system beyond Pluto in a matter
of hours. Long before we got there."

"But supposing one did land on Terra, for instance?"

"It would make an interesting looking meteorite; it would melt in
mid-air. Then the total radioactivity would spread thin and do no
damage."

She was satisfied, and Farradyne led her back to the salon.

For the first time in years Farradyne began to feel at ease with the
universe. His mind, previously busy with his main problem, found time
to consider other things. And, like the rest of the spaceman breed,
Farradyne was something of a gadgeteer.

Spacing, in a sense, was very much like the manning of a sailing ship
of the nineteenth century. When something needed attention, in space
it was during maneuver for landing, take-off, or turn-over; on sea
it was coming about on a tack or setting sail, a full-time attention
was necessary. Between periods of activity, the spaceman sat on his
duff and waited for one of the silent twinkles to detach itself from
the stellar curtain above his observation dome and become a planet or
destination.

Some spacemen reverted to the point where they built spacecraft in old
bottles, others spent their time in tinkering.

Farradyne had always been one of the latter. And so as his mind felt at
ease, he began to tinker with the gear down in the repair shop. It was
a small room below the passenger section hardly large enough to hold
the machinery it contained. But Farradyne, like many of his fellows,
enjoyed making things, repairing things and generally experimenting.
Every spaceman hoped to come up with something that would make him rich
and famous, and some of them had done it. They had plenty of time, a
good grasp of things scientific as well as manual dexterity.

So Farradyne tinkered happily.

The shop was silent; the usual milling around of his passengers stopped
as they went to bed. Now there was only the occasional groan of
metal-upon-metal or the faint whine as a motor somewhere wound up to
do some automatic job. The click and clack of relays were just barely
audible; they would have been unheard by someone whose training had
been other than that of a spaceman. In the background was the muted
sibilant of the reaction motor, a sound like the shush of a distant
seashore. Farradyne heard these sounds unconsciously. They were as
pleasant to the ears of the spaceman as the sounds of a sailing ship
were to the old-time seaman.

But another faint sound came to disturb him, rising up into the level
of audibility very slowly.

It was a ringing in Farradyne's ears.

Ringing in the ears can come from too much alcohol, or a shot of dope,
or a slap on the side of the head. Or a change in air-pressure.
Farradyne had not been drinking nor taking the needle, but he had spent
many years in an environment where the supply of air was important.
He had become oversensitive to it. He sniffed automatically, the
gesture of a man who has reason to suspect the quality of the air he is
breathing. He shook his head. He did feel a bit light-headed. There was
the bare trifle of a dull pain above his eyes and a sting in his nose.
He sneezed and brought forth a dribble of blood.

Farradyne raced aloft; he could settle nothing standing in the
workshop. The bulkhead door between the hold of the Lancaster and the
passengers' section was closed. He pushed it and it opened with slight
difficulty to let a blow of air hit his face. He grunted in puzzlement.
Any change in air-pressure in any part of the ship should have started
a clangor of the puncture alarm, a racket loud enough to waken the dead.

He went through the stateroom corridor and listened carefully as he
went. Some rooms were silent and others sounded like the song of the
cross-cut saw working its way through a burl of maple. There were
gradations of snores between these extremes. Nothing that a suspicious
man could put his finger on. He did not pause in the salon, which was
silent and darkened, but not completely black. There was nothing out of
the way here.

In fact the only thing that was out of line was the queer fact that the
ship was silent when the alarm should have been sounding. He went up to
the control room.

Lamps told him the story in a series of quick appraisals, because of
some long-forgotten genius that had insisted that whenever possible,
warning devices should not be fused, should not be turn-offable and
should not be destructible. The Lancaster was a fine ship, designed
well, but a frontal attack on a panel with metal cutting tools made
the exception to the "whenever possible" part of the design of warning
signals.

The ship's bell-system had been opened like a tin can.

But the pilot lamp system was strung here and there behind the panels
and it would have taken a major overhaul to ruin it; the saboteur would
have spent all night opening cans instead of doing his dirty work.
Farradyne should have been asleep, then he would not have noticed the
blaze of lamps.

They told him the tale in a glance. The low-pressure portion of the
ship was down in the pile-bay, and the reason was that one of the
scuttle-doors was open. The pressure in the reaction-mass bay was low,
and now that Farradyne had come aloft, the pressure in the upper
levels was as low as the reaction-mass bay. As he watched, another one
of the scuttle ports swung open and its warning lamp flared into life.

Farradyne went into action. He ripped open the cabinet that held his
space-suit and clawed the thing from its hook. He started down the
stairway on a stumbling run, getting into the suit by leaps, jumps and
pauses. He realized that he could have moved faster if he stopped to do
one thing at a time, but his frantic mind would not permit him to make
haste slowly. So he stumbled and he fell against the walls, and the
tanks of his back rapped against his shoulder-blades, and the helmet
cut a divot out of the bridge of his nose. Luckily it did not make him
bleed, but it hurt like the very devil.

He zipped up the airtight clotures by the time he reached the little
workshop and he ducked in there to get a weapon of some sort. He
reached past the hammer, ignored the obvious chisel because it was not
heavy enough, even though it was sharp, and picked up a fourteen-inch
half-round wood-working rasp. He hefted it in his gloved hand and it
felt about right.

The air-break on the topside was open, and Farradyne closed it. He
fretted at the seconds necessary to equalize the pressure, and to
check the workings of the space-suit. He also located the cause of the
air-leakage; normally the air-break doors were airtight. A sliver of
wool or cotton string lay in the rubber gasket and produced a channel
for the escape of some of the air into the pile-bay. Farradyne stopped,
his attention attracted by this trifle of evidence. It was neither wool
nor cotton, but a match torn from a giveaway book and used to light a
cigarette for Mrs. Logan a good many hours before.

He threw it aside and went in, his attention once more on the important
business before him. He ran along the curved corridor. And there, a
figure in a space-suit was quietly levering one of the control rods out
of its slot and preparing to hurl it into the void.

Farradyne understood the whole act in that one glance; it was the sort
of thing that he would do if sabotage were his intention. The single
scuttle-port had been opened first by hand. Then the saboteur had
scuttled the stock of spare control rods, and since the Lancaster was
reasonably new, there had been quite a batch of them. Furthermore they
were long, unwieldy, heavy things that took time to handle. Naturally
this was the first act, because the next act would cause the ship's
acceleration to rise. The rise in acceleration would make the rods too
heavy to carry and would also cause investigation as soon as people
became aware of the increasing pressure.

Then the working rods would be hurled out, leaving the ship heading
toward some anonymous star at about eight gravities of acceleration.
The passengers and crew would be helpless--and dead long before they
got within any appreciable fraction of a distance to any planet.

Maybe two or three of the rods had been scuttled already. The rest,
functioning on the automatic, would have been shoved in farther
to compensate; Farradyne could feel no change in the acceleration
pressure. But once the working rods were all the way home, the removal
of the next would cause the ship to take off, literally with the
throttle tied down. Farradyne was willing to bet the rest of his life
that the safety-valve that furnished the water-mass to the pile was
either welded open or damaged in such a way that the supply could not
be stopped.

Then--and Farradyne had to admire the vandal's precautions--he would
make his way to the escape hatch and let the helpless passengers go
on ... and on....

Victims of another case of "Lost in Space."

The saboteur was well prepared. His suit was a high efficiency job
capable of maintaining a man alive for a long time in space. It had a
little radio for calling and a small and expensive chemical motor for
mild maneuvering, even though it would not be strong enough to permit
planetary landing. The man had friends, obviously, lying in wait out
there, who would pick him up.

A parcel of ice-cold-blooded murderers.

Farradyne saw the man through a red haze that clouded down over his
eyes. His evaluation of the act was made in a glance, and in the bare
instant that it took for Farradyne to see the man he got his feet in
motion. He plunged forward with a bellow that hurt his own ears.




                                  10


The man whirled and sent a heavy-gloved hand back against Farradyne's
face glass. Farradyne lifted the file for a second swing and caught the
gleam of a heavy knife just as it swung upward at his face. The blade
jabbed at the face glass and blunted slightly before Farradyne's eyes,
splintering the glass and sending a shard or two against his cheek.

Farradyne's second swing caught a shoulder and sent the man staggering
back; the knife came up and the gleaming edge sliced close to
Farradyne's arm. The man stumbled and fell, and Farradyne came forward
to take advantage of the opportunity. The long lever used to handle
the radioactive control rod chopped against Farradyne's shins and cut
his feet out from under him; he landed on his face and the other man
kicked out with heavy space boots. The heels rammed Farradyne's helmet
hard down into his shoulders, and the top of his helmet hit the top of
Farradyne's head, stunning him.

The other scrambled forward and landed on Farradyne's back. He pulled
up and back on the fittings of Farradyne's helmet until the pilot's
spine ached with the tension. Then the man thrust forward and slammed
Farradyne's face down on the deck. The splintered safety glass cracked
further and there came the thin, high screech of air escaping through a
sharp-edged hole.

Farradyne lashed out and around just in time to parry a slash of the
knife. Blade met file in a glint of metal-spark and both weapons were
shocked out of the gloved hands to go skittering across the deck.

The man left Farradyne to scramble across the floor after his knife.
Farradyne jumped to his feet, took three fast steps and leaped,
coming down with both feet on the man's back. The other collapsed and
Farradyne fell, turning his right wrist underneath him. The other made
a kick that caught Farradyne in the side, turning him over. And as
Farradyne rolled, the bent hand touched metal and he came out of the
roll clutching a heavy pair of repair pliers. He could cut bolts with
them, and had.

He faced the killer, standing again; armed again, spaceman's pliers
against assassin's knife. He plunged forward and felt the knife bite
against his suit, he swung the pliers as a club and caught the killer's
upper arm; he opened the jaws and bit down, twisting and pulling.

A three-cornered tear ripped and came away with the point between the
jaws until the heavy outer cloth gave way. The knife came up and bit
through Farradyne's suit across the knuckles of the hand that held
the pliers. Farradyne kicked, sent the killer staggering and followed
him probing at the tear to get at the thin inner suit. The other man
struggled, hurled Farradyne back, but Farradyne staggered back with the
thin lining between the jaws of the pliers. The suit ripped and there
came a puff of white vapor as the air blew into the void.

The struggling killer stopped as though shocked by an electric current;
he stood there stiffly, his hands slowly falling to his sides, limp.
Farradyne took a step back, breathing hard. He could see now that his
head was not jerked back and forth behind the cracked glass. He peered,
in time to watch the froth of blood foam out of Hughes' nose.

Hughes! The math professor. The wise guy who had created the part of
dumb bunny by making sounds of knowing too much, who pretended to know
his way around in space.

Farradyne wondered whether Hughes had cried out in a polytonal
voice--then he hauled him into the air-break and slammed the door shut.
He felt for a pulse and found one fluttering; he turned him on his face
and pumped the ribs in, out, in, out, wondering whether he was wasting
his time.

Hughes groaned painfully. His groans echoed and reechoed in the tiny
space, but Farradyne could not hear more than the wreaking moan of a
man hurt very deeply. Hughes stirred and opened one eye. Then he closed
it again and sobbed under his breath. Farradyne checked the heart and
found it beating weakly; the pulse was not fluttering any more, and
the breath was coming naturally, even though the man's chest heaved
high and dropped low and there was a foghorn sound in the throat as he
gasped huge lungfuls of air.

Whatever, Hughes would give Farradyne no trouble for some time.
Farradyne carried the unconscious man to his stateroom and dropped
him on the bed. Then he went below and closed the little hatches,
reinserted the control rod, and wondered whether missing a few would
louse up his landing.

He went up to the control room and replaced the wiring torn out of the
audible-alarm system. The phalanx of warning lamps had winked out and
the clangor of the alarm did not come.

Farradyne went back to Hughes; the man was in a semicoma.

"Can you hear me?" demanded Farradyne.

Hughes roused slightly and looked at Farradyne through heavy eyes,
mumbling unintelligibly.

"You dirty louse!" fumed Farradyne. "I'd have let you die if it hadn't
occurred to me that you might be good for some information. What makes,
Hughes? Or should we have an accident below?"

Hughes mumbled something that sounded like defiance.

"Think your friends will give you a raise for this fumble?" jeered
Farradyne.

Hughes roused a bit more and looked at Farradyne more directly. "Smart
guy," he said in a toneless voice, "you can't--"

Farradyne smiled cynically. "Yes, I can and I have," he snapped. Then
he leaned down and put his face close to Hughes' and said carefully,
"Hughes, sing me a trio."

Hughes' control was good. His eyes widened only a sliver and the catch
in his breath was faint; anybody not watching for these signs of sudden
alarm would not have noticed anything amiss. Then the eyes dimmed again
and Hughes said, weakly, "Sing nothing."

"What's your pitch, Hughes?"

"I don't know what you're talking about."

"The hell you don't," said Farradyne harshly. "And if you won't talk
without it, I can make you yelp real loud. First I break all your
fingers, one by one, and then your toes, and then if you're still
playing stupid, there's always the trick of slipping a soldering iron
under your armpit and then plugging it in. Between the time the current
goes on and the time you really start to feel it burn should be long
enough to make a lot of gab."

Hughes looked at Farradyne directly. "You'd better kill me," he said
flatly. "Because you can't hold me."

"I'll make you a bet," sneered Farradyne. "I'll bet that I can hang
onto you, and if I do, you'll pay off by talking. Even-steven, Hughes."

Farradyne went to his small medicine chest and came back with a
hypodermic, which he loaded with deliberation. He made a dramatic scene
out of pushing the plunger, watching the droplet form on the end of the
needle and then adjusting that dose against the scale on the side of
the cylinder.

"Marcoleptine," he said conversationally. "A fine pain-killer, Hughes.
Just the thing a man would do to help a very ill comrade. It'll keep
you quiet until we can discuss the situation without having your
screams disturbing the passengers. Slip me your arm, old man. This
won't hurt much."

Hughes mouthed a curse, but Farradyne paid no more attention to the
man's objections than he would have to the objections of a child.
Farradyne caught Hughes' wrist and brought the man's hand up under his
armpit, then braced his forearm under Hughes' elbow. Then he lifted an
arm-bar, which raised Hughes' shoulder from the cot; Farradyne slid the
needle into the elbow easily with his free arm, probed for the vein and
discharged the hypodermic.

"I wonder," mused Farradyne aloud, "whether marcoleptine is really
non-habit-forming." He sat there on the edge of the bed watching Hughes
very carefully. Hughes struggled to keep his eyes wide, fighting off
the narcotic. But then the eyelids grew heavier and started to close.

In a weakened, drugged voice, Hughes mumbled, "Easier to slip
under--now--can't do anything--will ..." and he was gone. His breathing
grew regular and his body was completely flaccid. Farradyne waited
until Hughes was well under the dope and then he stopped watching the
man critically and began to plan his next move.

Hughes was going to be a sick man. Therefore the marks of battle should
not be visible to his companions when they wanted to look in on the
ill professor. Farradyne got a washcloth, soaped it well and went to
work. He let the hot cloth soak into Hughes' face for a minute or two
massaging the face under the cloth with agile fingers. Then he began to
scrub.

The caked blood came away. And so did some dark pigment that stained
the cloth. The dark-complected Hughes lightened in color; the lines in
his face seemed to become less deep as the shadowing pigment was washed
away. Schoolteacher Hughes came off into Farradyne's washcloth and what
was left was the would-be hellflower trader, Brenner.

"Brenner," breathed Farradyne in astonishment.

But the dope had taken effect and Brenner was out cold. Farradyne
bemoaned his enthusiasm for doping the man because questions would
fall on deaf ears. Then Farradyne took a more rational view. There
would be plenty of time to question the hellflower operator after the
schoolteachers left. Meanwhile, Brenner would be kept doped, quiet and
nailed-down for the duration. He left Brenner and went to his own bed
where--to his surprise--he went to sleep at once instead of lying awake
with the myriad questions in his mind....

He carried his book on Medicology with him to the breakfast table the
following morning, and at the questioning looks, Farradyne made his
announcement, "We have a sick man aboard. Hughes."

Professor Martin asked, "What happened, Mr. Farradyne?"

"It must have been about midnight, I was working below. I heard a
rather strange noise up in the passengers' section and went up to find
out what was going on. I found Mr. Hughes coughing and sneezing in the
passageway, obviously in distress. I inspected him as best as I knew
how and we got out my Medicology and compared symptoms. I'll read this
section:

"'Coryosis, one of the nine allied infections which are frequently
grouped under the ambiguous term "Common Cold," is extremely contagious
but fatal only in cases of extreme sensitivity. Treatments consist of
isolation amounting to a formal quarantine, and frequent injections of
MacDonaldson's Formula 2, Ph-D3; Ra7. The patient is to be kept warm
at all times and must remain quiet.'

"So we went to his cabin and I slipped him a shot and he went to bed.
Now I'll read a bit more:

"'Contagion measures: Since the source of infection is a filterable
virus, care must be taken to remain outside of the twenty-foot range
of water droplets resulting from a cough or sneeze. All things touched
by the patient must be either sterilized or burned. It is suggested
that only one person tend the patient and that this person be immunized
with MacDonaldson's Formula at regular intervals. Visiting should be
discouraged, and if necessary must be carried on at a distance and
for a very few minutes only. The incubation period is very short; the
duration of coryosis is approximately fourteen days. It is, however,
possible for a re-infection to take place which often resembles the
initial infection, thus giving rise to the six-week cold.'

"There's more along this line but I think we have the picture well
enough," Farradyne concluded.

Professor Martin's face was grave. "What must we do?" he asked
anxiously.

"Nothing," said Farradyne firmly.

"But he shouldn't stay on Pluto."

"That is correct. Pluto is very cold, even with the Terra conversion
program going on. Mr. Hughes should be returned to Terra."

"But--"

Farradyne smiled. "I've got to make a freight pickup on Pluto for
Terra," he said quietly. "I'll take Mr. Hughes back home."

"That would be very considerate of you, Mr. Farradyne."

Farradyne shook his head in disclaimer. "It's only what any man would
do," he said. "What do we know about Mr. Hughes?"

Miss Tilden said, "Not very much, I'm afraid. Mr. Hughes teaches
Ancient History in Des Moines, Iowa. He joined us on Mercury, you know."

"No," said Farradyne, "I didn't know. I thought you were all together."

"Apparently Mr. Hughes was traveling alone until he heard of our
group," offered Professor Martin. "He was, he said, seeking a
reduced-rate trip to Pluto--as we were--when he noticed our flight-plan
filed on the bulletin board. He got in touch with me and offered to
join."

Farradyne nodded. "There's really plenty of time," he said. "No use
getting excited. I'll contact the Des Moines Board of Education
later--after we've made our landing and take-off, and are close enough
to Terra to make the radio effective. It'll save us some money that
way." The latter, he thought, would appeal to these people.

It was left that way. Farradyne did not assume for one moment that
Hughes was a complete fake. One of two ideas was certainly true: either
there was a real schoolteacher named Hughes who looked like the made-up
Brenner, or Brenner had been masquerading as Hughes and really taught
school in Des Moines when he was not peddling hellflowers.

There were more important things to be considered, too. Was there
another hellflower operator in the ship? Farradyne watched them all
like the proverbial hawk but he could see no evidence of another
hellflower man. He decided to take no chances; it would be very much
like the higher-ups in this racket to have put a second operator aboard
the Lancaster to take over in the case of Brenner's failure; the second
undercover man could escape as easily as could Brenner and in the same
way as soon it became evident that the Lancaster had been properly
sabotaged. To forestall this possibility, Farradyne built a small
photoelectric alarm and put it across the stairway that led from the
passengers' cabin to the below-deck section of the ship.

Some of Hughes' friends went with Farradyne to watch him tend the
stricken one. They stood in the doorway while Farradyne gave Hughes his
shot of marcoleptine out of an ampoule carefully labeled "MacDonaldson
Formula 2, Ph-D3; Ra7." There was no doubt in their faces; Farradyne
was a fine man, doing all he could to relieve the illness of another
man.

The rest of the trip was uneventful. Farradyne was asked periodically
about Hughes' condition and he replied carefully and cheerfully, once
going so far as to remark with a slightly bitter laugh, "Hughes will
probably feel fit as a fiddle by the time I get back to Terra, and
he'll then hate me for lugging him home. But we couldn't leave him on
Pluto with that coryosis, could we?"

Since none of them cared to have a man coughing and sneezing in their
midst, they all agreed solemnly.

Then, inevitably, the trip wore to a close. Pluto loomed large in the
sky, and Farradyne went below to see Hughes-Brenner about an hour
before they were due to land.




                                  11


Farradyne found Brenner awake but logy. "How do you feel?" he asked
Brenner.

"I feel dopy," admitted Brenner dully.

"Good. You've been a very sick man, Brenner. Or should I call you
Hughes? Which is your name?"

"What difference can it make?"

"I like to know these things," said Farradyne. "I seem to collect a
lot of information, one way and another, and I admit a lot of it is
useless, but I find it interesting. For instance, Brenner, can you make
that triple-tongued sound?"

"What triple-tongued sound?"

"Come off it, Brenner. You know what I'm talking about."

"Do I?"

"You do and I intend to find out," said Farradyne. He loaded his needle
and approached Brenner with it. "This is for the last time, Brenner.
And I've ideas on how to make a man talk--or sing a trio."

"You're a devil from hell," Brenner snarled.

"And you're an angel from heaven, ripping out the control rods to give
us the Long Ride? Brenner, I owe you a lot that I'm going to collect.
You'll wish you had died, Brenner. And you probably will die not long
after your friends find out that you've talked."

Brenner eyed Farradyne wearily. "You haven't won your bet yet," he
said. "And even if you do, there's the problem of extracting payment."

Farradyne shrugged. "You'll talk," he said flatly. Then he reached for
Brenner's arm, imprisoned it so that Brenner could not move without
dislocating the shoulder, and slid the needle home. "Just to be sure,"
he told the man, who was showing all the defiance that a man in a
weakened condition could display, "I gave you a slightly larger dose.
The Medicology says that this is accepted practice with marcoleptine,
when the patient is in some danger of an excitement-crisis."

He waited until Brenner's eyes closed and the breathing became deep
and regular. Then Farradyne left Brenner, went aloft and made contact
with Pluto Spaceport. He came down with one hand poised above the power
lever; at the first glimmer of any hanky-panky, Farradyne was going to
slam the power home and take off for space at full power. Questions
could be asked afterwards.

The landing was as good as any that Farradyne had ever made, but
he was almost a nervous wreck worrying about the possibility of a
recurrence of the Semiramide incident. He relaxed only after he had
peeked, unobserved, at Hughes, still doped, and then led the covey of
schoolteachers down the landing ramp.

It was a happy parting, with just the right tone of regret and a
large amount of congratulations as to his ability, helpfulness and
willingness to explain things to them that other pilots brushed away.
They shook his hand and Miss Carewe permitted him to kiss her cheek
and called him "Son" and Miss Tilden giggled and lifted her face for
a chaste peck. Mrs. Logan's lips were warm and soft but completely
uncooperative.

Then Professor Martin made an "ahem" in his throat and said, "Young
man, we've all decided that you should have something to show our
gratitude. Unfortunately it cannot be expensive or exotic although we
have all agreed that an appropriate gift should be both. So since we
cannot go to the high extreme that we all feel, we have decided that
the next best thing is something completely valueless except for its
sentiment."

He fumbled in his side pocket and brought out a small piece of slate,
broken from some outcropping, somewhere.

"On this slate we've signed our names with a sharp instrument. I hope
you like it, Charles."

Farradyne took the bit of slate. It said, "To Charles Farradyne, Pilot
First Class, in memory of a very pleasant flight." It was signed by all
of them.

"Thanks," he said, shortly. A lump hit his throat and his eyeballs
stung. He felt ashamed. He had been playing games and holding high
intrigue almost under their noses and they had responded with this very
simple gesture of sincerity: Pilot, First Class--with a forged license
and a record of hell-raising. "Thanks," he said again.

"It's signed by everybody but Mr. Hughes," said Professor Martin. "But
you can ask him to sign it before you leave him. He will be happy to, I
know."

There was a sound at the spacelock. "I'll sign it now!" said Hughes.

They all whirled. Hughes, eyes alight, the smile on his pale face
eager, came down the ramp with his suitcase in one hand.

"But you--" said Professor Martin.

Hughes laughed and his voice was hearty, "I kept telling Mr. Farradyne
that he was too heavy with the medicine." Hughes poked Farradyne
humorously on the shoulder. "Coryosis, Mr. Farradyne, is nowhere near
as violent an illness as you have been led to believe. Our ancestors
called it the common cold and most of them spent a few weeks each year
fighting one form or another, frequently several forms at the same
time. Sleep and isolation cured me. I'm quite all right now."

"You're certain?" Farradyne managed.

"I'll let any doctor on Pluto look down my throat," promised Hughes.
"And I'll go back with you if he doesn't say I'm fit. I'm a bit pale, I
admit, and I won't regain my color until we get back sunward, but I'm
telling you that I am quite cured of my brief encounter with coryosis."

The spaceport bus came to a stop at that moment and Hughes, pausing
to scratch his name on the plaque, thanked Farradyne for the thorough
medication that had kept him quiet, got on the bus, waved and was
whisked away.

Farradyne, stunned, could only wave like a reluctant schoolboy.

So Hughes-Brenner disappeared again, wandering away under the
protection of a group of honest, unsuspecting human beings who would
have been aghast at the first cry of villain against one of their
number.

Farradyne felt like a seven-year-old who had just been trapped into
admitting that he has been a naughty boy. But out of the maze of items
one thing was obvious.

Hughes or Brenner or whatever he called himself was a very
extraordinary man. He had been able to walk off the ship with his eyes
bright and his system hale, when he should have been flat on his spine
with a brainful of marcoleptine. And marcoleptine was one of the most
completely paralyzing drugs that had ever been synthesized. Hughes had
feigned his doped slumber and his helplessness because he had known
that Farradyne would not attempt to ask questions until he had Hughes
alone. He had also lulled Farradyne into thinking him drugged so that
he could come out nice and easy to join his fellow-travelers in such
a way as to turn Farradyne's own explanation against him. Then he had
walked away without a murmur of dissent from Farradyne who had no legal
right to raise a cry against him.

Hughes-Brenner was a very remarkable fellow.

Farradyne watched the truck bringing out his shipment of refined
thorium ore. Outpointed, outsmarted, outnumbered, the evidence he had
was so very meager. He sneered at himself. Evidence? It was more a mere
belief.

But what was a case history but snippets and bits of inconclusive
evidence that somehow fitted together like the sections of an
interlocking jigsaw puzzle? What did he have to fit together? A common
pattern of love lotus background. A man who died with a discordant
moan. A man who grunted in a polytone when surprised, and who could
take a paralyzing dose of marcoleptine and then walk out jauntily.
A family of apparently well-to-do formality with a proud place in
the community, and a girl who worked hand-in-glove with hellflower
manipulators but who obviously had never had her delicate nose near one
of the hellish things. Or maybe she was immune, as Hughes was immune to
marcoleptine? And did _she_ make multiple-toned sounds when she
was startled?

A few very remarkable people....

       *       *       *       *       *

Farradyne took off for Newark with his cargo, still trying to think
the matter out. Two things were certain: Farradyne himself was afraid
to take a needleful of marcoleptine because he knew damned well that
he was not immune; Farradyne could not make a polytonal sound with his
vocal cords.

He sat in the salon, alone and quietly thinking, and finally realized
that he was completely isolated from everyone else in the solar system.
He could sing crazily or go to bed, and no one would know which he did.

He essayed a sound. It sounded like the croak of a Terran tree-frog. He
made the whimper of a cocker spaniel and succeeded in getting a cramp
in his throat trying to get down an octave below his normal register.
He hummed and he spoke in a falsetto that made his tongue ache way down
deep in back, and he tried humming and speaking and groaning at the
same time and the result of that was a toneless croak.

It struck him funny after a bit, and while he was laughing at himself,
he concocted a ludicrous picture of himself kissing Carolyn Niles, and
she responding in a three-toned moan.

Alone and lost in his own thoughts, Farradyne slipped deeper and deeper
into his daydream, until he answered her throaty little sound with an
audible reply.

"I love you," he said, straining at his vocal cords. It sounded like an
over-age choir boy whose voice was not ready to stay in one key yet.
Soprano and baritone and tenor sounded the words, but they came out in
sequence instead of all at once. A bit sing-songy, like Chinese.

The sound, at discordant odds with the smooth, pleasant daydream,
jarred Farradyne's mind into wakefulness. The chances were that if he
had been able to create a three-toned reply he might have gone on with
the pleasant reverie. But now aware, Farradyne tried it again.

"I love you," he said aloud. He was not particularly aware of the
meaning of the words, they had just been appropriate to the dream. If
Farradyne had been daydreaming about dinner he probably would have been
trying the strange triple tone on, "Please pass the mashed potatoes."

He tried it again. What Farradyne wanted to do was to say "I" in _F_;
"Love" in _A Natural_; and "You" in _E Flat_, which would have been a
nice chord in _B Flat Minor_ and somehow appropriate to the context of
the words. "I hate you" would have been just as likely.

Old Brenner-Hughes might have said, "That's very neat!" when he had
seen Norma Hannon with the sun shining through her skirt. Or its
equivalent, all coming out in one surprised grunt.

Carrying this line of thought still farther, Farradyne considered
the original saboteur, who might have said, "That takes care of you,
Farradyne," as he clobbered the relays in the Semiramide. And Mike
Cahill, who might have cried, "I've been shot!" or more probably
something completely unprintable.

Farradyne sat bolt upright. As a countersign to tell another hellflower
operator your own identity it was a fine job. But could a whole
language be constructed out of this three-tongued hodgepodge?

Or was his entire trend of thought based upon the ultimate hope of
discovering something that would absolve him from the responsibility
of the wreck of the Semiramide? Actually, what did he have to go on?
An exclamation, a surprised grunt, a death cry. Absolutely nothing but
his own suspicion. That plus the fact that Farradyne's ship had been
subjected to some intercepted sabotage, by a hellflower operator, who
had made a sound that might have been polytonal.

If nothing else, the fact that the dope-running gang was trying to clip
him was enough for Farradyne to seek Clevis' help. He went down into
the hold and started to wash the ends of the thorium drums.

Then he spent a lot of time tinkering with a little semi-circle of soft
plastic material across the opening of which he stretched two, thin,
flat strips of hard-surfaced waterproofed paper. As a boy, Farradyne
had been bilked out of fifty cents for a gadget advertised in a cheap
magazine that purported to give the user the powers of ventriloquism.
It hadn't enabled Farradyne to throw his voice into a trunk but it had
made a rather interesting bird call. Such a gimmick now might enable
him to make a multiple tone.

Farradyne spent the remaining time of his trip from Pluto to Terra
building the gizmo and practising with it until he could make a very
odd moaning cry in three notes. Meanwhile he wondered whether Carolyn
Niles would actually be on Terra to meet him.




                                  12


Farradyne wondered how soon the fuss would start once the drums of
refined thorium went under some hidden beams of ultra-violet light.
He watched the drums being trundled off, and they disappeared, and
Farradyne waited and watched until it was evening in that part of New
Jersey, but no one came on the double-run to ask him leading questions.

He took off about nine o'clock, finally, and made the looping run from
New Jersey to Los Angeles in time to get him there just about dusk.

He checked into the control tower.

"Regular listing?" asked the registration clerk, looking at the license
without turning an eyebrow.

"No, I've a charter run," said Farradyne.

"Then why register here?"

Farradyne thought fast. "This is one of those things," he said. "A
darned good hope but no down payment. I was told to land here this
evening and if nothing had changed while I was on the run to Pluto and
back, I could have a rider to Mercury. But if this passenger does not
show up, I want to be registered for anything heading Mercury-ward.
I'll be going there in two days anyway, but I'd rather go loaded."

"Reasonable. Tell you what, Farradyne, I'll make yours a tentative
listing. If your passenger doesn't show by tomorrow morning, you'll go
up on the board as having registered tonight."

"Thanks," said Farradyne. He took the opened license back and slid a
finger into an inside slip-pocket. "Got a picture here you might be
interested in. A portrait of one of our early presidents."

"I'm a bit of a collector," said the clerk.

"Well, in that case, you can have it for the favor. I just keep it
around for a curiosity."

The clerk pocketed the bill easily and Farradyne went over to the
mail-listing window. "Anything for Charles Farradyne?"

"Expecting something?"

"At least one, a payment voucher from Eastern Atomic. Come yet?"

The mail clerk disappeared; came back with one envelope. "Nothing from
Eastern Atomic," he said. "But here's a letter for Charles Farradyne,
Pilot of ship's registry Six-Eight-Three, a Lancaster Eighty-One. That
must be yours."

"It's mine. But keep an eye peeled for a landwire payment voucher,
will you? I had to leave Newark before it was ready and the guy at
the shipping office said he'd notify the company that the stuff was
received at port, and that I'd be in Los Angeles. Okay?"

"Aye-firm."

The letter was from Carolyn. A brief note telling him that she would be
ready for the trip on the morning of the fifth. This suited Farradyne;
he had been afraid that Carolyn might be waiting at the spaceport for
him, and that they'd be taking off before Clevis had a chance to find
out about the washed drum-ends.

She also suggested as a postscript that she might possibly be at her
hotel and free about nine any evening, and there was some reference to
her being a bit squeamish about the dark. Farradyne was half-inclined
to believe her. Carolyn Niles lived on Mercury--a planet that knew no
night.

He looked at his watch, he had a couple of idle hours left. He started
to wander the streets of Los Angeles, wondering just how a man went
about buying a hellflower. He had done that before, but that was on
Mercury where such things might be more difficult to find. There were
two places in America where, for generations, a man could get anything
he had enough money to buy and knew where to look. He was in one; the
other was three thousand miles across the continent, in New York. All
that remained was the problem of finding out where to look.

Farradyne had to admit he had a difficulty. He was in a position
similar to a teetotaler in a prohibition area who suddenly decides to
buy a drink and cannot, from lack of experience, locate a speakeasy.
And dope, which had been with the human race ever since the first
caveman took a bite out of a bit of saw-toothed weed, and was sold on
the street by peddlers, was singularly hidden from the clutch of a man
who just casually wanted to collect a packet.

So Farradyne spent some time wandering. He went into a florist shop and
tried to buy a corsage. He could buy a corsage for a few dollars, but
not for fifty. At least, for fifty he could get nothing smaller than a
garland.

In one place Farradyne tried his tonal throat gadget. The florist eyed
him curiously and asked him if he had something wrong with his throat.

And then, about fifteen minutes before he reached Carolyn's hotel a man
sidled up alongside him and said, "Say, Jack, lookin' for somethin'?"

"Who isn't?"

"Might be able to fix you up, Jack. Got five?"

Farradyne knew that this was not the price, so he looked at his watch
and said, "I've got fifteen."

"Won't take that long. Try the stand in the Essex Lounge."

Farradyne blinked. The Essex was no more than six years old, right
in the middle of the city, and considered one of the plush joints of
Terra. Selling hellflowers at the Essex was like selling the things on
the steps of the Terran Capitol Building.

"Yeah?" he asked sourly.

"Yeah. Tell 'em Lovejoy sent you to pick up his flowers. Cost you
fifty, Jack. Willin' to pay?"

"I've got it; and I'm willing."

"See ya, Jack."

The character sidled away, leaving a slight scent of decaying cloth
mingled with a faint fragrance of gardenia. It was, according to
Farradyne's standards, one god-awful mixture.

Farradyne went to the Essex and into the florist shop. A girl who was
undeniably beautiful came forward. Farradyne smiled knowingly.

"I'm a friend of Mr. Lovejoy," he said. "He asked me to stop by and
pick up his corsage."

"Of course." The girl disappeared and returned with a transparent
plastic box containing a gardenia--or a love lotus. "That will be five
dollars," she said with a piercing look at Farradyne.

Farradyne took a fifty out of his wallet and handed it to her. She rang
up five on the register, and Farradyne walked out, wondering if anybody
ever considered that Mr. Lovejoy must have a number of peculiar habits
and rather easy-going friends that could be imposed upon.

At Carolyn's hotel a few minutes later, the desk clerk informed him
that Miss Niles was expecting him and he should go right up.

Carolyn greeted him warmly, took him by the hand and drew him into the
hotel room. Once the door was closed she came into his arms and kissed
him, not too fervently, but very pleasantly, with her body pressing
his briefly. Then she moved out of his arms and accepted the flower.
"Lovely," she said.

She opened it and breathed the fragrance deeply. She held the white
flower at arm's length, admiring its beauty. Then she held it to her
nose and took a deep breath, letting the fragrance fill her lungs.

Farradyne's mind did a flip-flop. First he felt like a louse, as she
smiled at him over the edge of the flower and then took another sniff
of the fifty-dollar blossom. "Maybe," she said archly, "I shouldn't do
this."

Well, she was immune--or she wasn't. Could be that it wasn't
even a hellblossom. But she should know. He hoped his smile was
honest-looking. "You are stuck already," he grinned wolfishly.

Carolyn took another luxuriant breath and tucked the blossom in her
hair. She came into his arms and kissed him sweetly. Then she relaxed,
leaning back in his arms to look into his eyes. "I'm not afraid of you,
Charles," she said in a low, throaty voice.

"No?"

She laughed at him and then turned out of his arms. She went to a tiny
sideboard and waved a hand at glasses and a bottle of Farradyne's
favorite liquor. He nodded, and she mixed. "Don't disappoint me,
Charles," she said.

"How?" he asked, wondering what she was driving at, and feeling that
this had nothing to do with hellflowers.

She handed him the highball.

She sipped at her drink and flirted with him over the top of the glass
for a moment. "I don't think anybody will call me overinflated if I
admit for a moment that my family is a long way from poverty; if, for
an instant, I admit that I know that I am very well equipped with
physical charm. I also flatter myself that I have a mind large enough
to absorb some of the interesting factors of this rather awesomely
beautiful universe."

"I will grant you the truth of all three."

"Thanks," she said with a sly-looking smile. "But the point
is, Charles, that a girl with a bit of money in the top of her
stocking--and a brain in her head--wonders whether the gentleman is
interested in the money, or the shape of her stocking. She is more
interested in having the man want her for the aforementioned brain, I
think. She'd like to feel that the gentleman in question would still be
interested if the shape of the stocking changed for the worst with age
and the money disappeared."

Farradyne looked at her and wondered again what she was and what she
was after. If nothing else, Carolyn was a consummate actress. He wanted
very much to take his face in his hands and ponder this problem deeply,
but there was no time. He had to reply at once or have the appearance
of a man who must make a careful answer. He walked across the room
and took Carolyn by the shoulders and shook her gently. He bent down
and kissed her and he found that the warm and eager response was back
again, even though he touched her only with his lips and his hands on
her warm shoulders.

"Let's leave it just that way," he told her. "Sooner or later something
will give me away--and then you will know whether I am after your
body, your money or your mind." Farradyne kissed her again, and again
lightly. "Until you know, nothing I say will convince you of anything."

Farradyne still had her shoulders under his palms; Carolyn moved
forward into his arms and rested against him. She put up her face for
his kiss, and held herself against him, close. Then she said dreamily,
"You're a nice sort of guy, Charles, and I'll be very happy to leave it
that way. Maybe you'll be the one who stays."

Farradyne recoiled mentally and hoped that his instinctive revulsion
was not noticed. It was too easy to forget what Carolyn represented
when Carolyn went soft and sweet and eager. He wanted to be a male
Mata Hari; he wanted to lure her on, to caress her into breathless
acquiescence and then walk out with a cold smile to show his contempt.

Then he relaxed--and hoped that the muscles of his body had not
undergone the change that his mind had--and decided if this were part
of the game he had to play to cut the hellblossom-hellflower-love lotus
ring out of the human culture, it was nice work. He recalled reading in
history, as a child, another, but mild drug, marijuana, had multiple
names.... His job would have been infinitely more difficult if Carolyn
had been a gawky ugly duckling with buck teeth and a pasty complexion.

"Charles," she breathed, "take me out into the dark?"

He laughed lightly. "Where?"

She leaned way back, arching her fine back. "I want to go out to
some dark gin mill and dance among the smoke and the natives and the
throbbing of tomtoms."

Their evening was a repetition of the evening on Mercury except that on
Terra it was dark outside. They danced and there was a steak dinner at
midnight, and there was Carolyn relaxed in his arms in the taxi on the
way back to her hotel at three.

He took her up to her room, and Carolyn came into his arms again, soft
and sweet. Her response was deep and passionate in a mature way that
Farradyne was not prepared for. The woman in his arms was all woman
and there could be no mistaking the fact, but there was also the
mysterious ability of the woman to know when to call a halt. She smiled
softly and put her head on his chest.

"It's been wonderful again, Charles," she said quietly. "I hope it
always is."

Farradyne rubbed his chin against the top of her head. Then Carolyn
swirled away. "It's incredibly late again. I'm going to come aboard
your ship at seven tomorrow night so we can take off before the crack
of dawn. This much I'll tell you and no more, now."

"But--"

"Easy, sweetheart, easy. Take it slow and lovely. Tomorrow night.
Tonight I need my beauty sleep."

He eyed her humorously.

"Think it doesn't help?" Then she laughed happily. "Charles, do me a
favor. Put this gardenia in your refrigerator for me. Please?"

Farradyne nodded dumbly. He watched Carolyn put the thing into its
plastic box, he watched her tie it up in the original ribbon. She
handed it to him, and then, chuckling because he had one hand full, she
came into his arms again for one last caress.

"Go," she told him with a wistful smile. "Go and dream about tomorrow
night."

Farradyne went, half-propelled by her hands, his reluctance partly
honest and partly curious. But he went.

On the street he hailed a taxi and spent the time on the way to the
spaceport wondering whether sharpers had clipped him for fifty for
a five-dollar gardenia. He wanted to toss the thing out of the cab
window, but he did not because Carolyn would ask for it tomorrow. He
even cursed himself for being willing to save it for her.

Farradyne walked into his spacer feeling like a man who had put his
last dollar on the turn of a card, and lost. Lost at least until he
could get somewhere and draw another stake from the bank. Futility and
wonder confused him; in one moment he was on top of the world with
everything going according to plan and the next his world was kicked
out from underneath him and he was dropped back into the mire of
fumbling, helpless ignorance again.

Farradyne walked into the salon of the Lancaster and stopped short. The
last peg had been pulled out of the creaky ladder of his success.

"What's the matter, Farradyne? Aren't you glad to see me?"

There was plenty the matter and he was not glad to see her.

Her eyes widened a bit and she came up out of her chair and toward
him. "Farradyne," she said, with more eagerness in her voice than he
had ever heard before, "you've brought me a love lotus!"

He let her have it, and watched as her rapid fingers tore away the
ribbon.

Norma lifted the flower from its nest in the box, buried her nose deep
in the center of the blossom and inhaled with a deep shuddering sob.
Her eyes closed, then opened serenely to look up at Farradyne from
beneath half-closed lids. She relaxed. The tension went out of her
body and she sank back against the cushions. She put her head back
and rested. And now Farradyne could see her face more clearly. Her
features had lost their chiseled immobility and her eyes had lost the
glassy stare. Her face became alive, and pleasant color flooded it.
Her muscles took on tone and Norma became alive and young-bodied and
beautiful. She was a new person.

Her lips parted slightly and curved into sweet lines. The hand that
held the flower lay idly on the seat beside her, the other lay palm
up on the other side. She looked like a young girl who had just been
kissed. Slowly, Norma lifted the blossom to her face and inhaled again
the fragrance from the center of the flower.

"Thanks, Farradyne," she said softly.

Farradyne's mouth was open and his mind refused to work on any but
the single thought. It was a hellflower. It had had no visible effect
on Carolyn--why? Then the attitude of the woman sitting on the divan
forced the other thought from his mind.

Not that Norma's attitude had changed in the past minute or so. She was
still relaxed, alive and obviously at peace with both the world and
herself. But Farradyne had been expecting much more; he had expected
an onslaught of passion, of hate, of violence, of emotion. It might be
either a demanding lust or the pleading languor of a woman bereft of
her defenses. Or.... But in any case Farradyne expected passion, of a
wanton depth.

He was wholly unprepared for this calm return to young and healthy
womanhood.

He wondered whether Norma would react normally to a gesture of
affection and absently he took a step toward her. He felt once again
that flush of pity for her and righteous anger for the rotten devils
that had done this to her; he wanted to comfort her. She had changed
visibly from a hardened woman whose beauty was stiff and unnatural to a
girl whose loveliness was vivid enough to shine through the hard facade
of heavy makeup.

"Norma," he said.

She smiled at him warmly but shook her head. Her arms raised as she
tucked the hellflower in the heavy hair over one ear. The gesture
slimmed her waist and raised her breasts, and through the triangle of
her arms he could see her eyes. They were sultry as they contemplated
him, but she shook her head.

"No," she said and Farradyne stopped. "You are a nice sort of fumbling
idiot, Charles, and I've stopped hating you for the moment, but that
doesn't mean I want any part of your caresses."

"I--"

She smiled at him knowingly. "You were, Charles. You were. But don't."
The odor of the love lotus, identical to the heady perfume of a
gardenia, permeated the room and Norma sniffed at the air, lifting her
face as she inhaled. "The smell of this is all I want."

Farradyne looked down at her and swore under his breath. This was the
story then. The future under such conditions must be insufferable. He
contemplated a man with an addicted wife; he would go on slaving night
and day to buy this damnable and beautiful hellflower for her just to
see her make this swift, sweet return to the normal woman he had once
known, only to discover time and again that she had no use for him.

A smile crossed her face and Farradyne realized that Norma had dozed
off in an ecstasy of relaxation. He wondered what to do next; his mind
was mingled with the desire to protect her by letting her sleep the
effects of the love lotus off, and the certain knowledge that if he
did, Norma would never leave him in time for his meeting with Carolyn
Niles. Of the two, the latter was by far the more important.




                                  13


As Farradyne stood there wondering what to do, a knuckle-on-metal rap
came at the spacelock and he turned to see Clevis standing there. He
waved Clevis in.

Clevis came through the inner lock and caught sight of Norma. He
stopped stock-still and looked the woman over from head to toe and back
again. His eyes were bleak, his face bitter and hard as he turned away
from Norma to face the other man.

"Farradyne, is this the contact you've managed to make?" The tone was
heavy with sarcasm.

Farradyne shook his head sourly. "She's the one that got me started on
the road to find out--" He was about to explain but Clevis cut him off
with a scowl.

"You do seem to have started," said Clevis. "That's a real hellflower
she's doping, you know. If I'd known--"

"Oh, for God's sake, listen!" snapped Farradyne. His shout rang through
the salon and echoed up and down the ship's corridors. Norma stirred
and came awake. She looked at Farradyne happily first, then her eyes
settled on Clevis.

"Company? Hello, Howard," she said cheerfully.

"How do you do?" said Clevis, coldly.

"Not bad, thank you. In fact, I'm feeling in very topnotch shape,
thanks to Mr. Farradyne."

"You're--"

"I must admit. A shame, too, but there it is."

"There's a reward out for you, Miss Hannon."

Norma's eyes twinkled a bit. "I know. He tried to collect on it. In
fact, I think he did collect on it. But I couldn't sit around and watch
a couple of fine old people tearing their hearts out over the ruin
of their daughter. That's a hell of a way to end an otherwise happy
existence--a son killed, a daughter doped. So I left."

Farradyne looked at Norma and Clevis sharply, he was lost; he could
only wait for Clevis' next move.

Clevis shrugged, Norma nodded and relaxed again. She said, quietly, "If
you gentlemen want to talk business, do it somewhere else. Or better,
Charles, may I have my old room again for the night?"

Farradyne nodded, speechless in his furious bewilderment, and led
Clevis up into the control room. Here, in a low voice, he explained
how Norma had announced his connection with the hellflower racket,
how Cahill had been killed and how he had picked up Carolyn Niles and
the subsequent sabotage by Brenner, sometimes called Hughes, and the
rest of it. At the end he spread out his hands and said, "This isn't
hard work and good management, Clevis. But here I am. It isn't even
good thinking, but I have a couple of questions that I'd like to have
answered."

"Yes?"

"Carolyn Niles wore the hellflower for six or seven hours without
turning a corpuscle. Norma Hannon proved that it was no gardenia. There
is something fishy here. Does medical history indicate any immunes to
the love lotus?"

"Some. Not many. Some doctors have even gone so far as to claim that
the hellflower is no more dangerous than tobacco."

Farradyne swore. "Not according to Norma Hannon, it isn't," he said
harshly.

Clevis eyed Farradyne carefully. "You're not a bit soft-headed over
Norma, are you?"

"I doubt it," said Farradyne honestly. "She's a poor kid that got
clipped and it makes my blood boil, and I want to go out and rap a
half-dozen scum-brained heads together for what they did to her.
Norma, she'd be the kind of woman I could fall in love with, Clevis,
but Norma is a real blank. You know, if you doped up enough women with
hellflowers, the birthrate would take a decline that would alarm a
marble statue."

"It's something to think about," nodded Clevis.

"Of course, I've never seen a woman after she has just taken her first
sniff so I don't know what it really adds up to, and I don't know how
long after the first sniff a woman's libido is still capable of being
excited, or even how high the libido can get under hellflowers. But by
the time they get to Norma's state, a love lotus only changes their
attitude from a completely scar-tissued emotional system to something
barely normal whose only desire is to sniff the flower." Farradyne
shook his head roughly. "Anyway," he said, after a moment of thought,
"you can get a couple of ships to follow me day after tomorrow morning.
We're going out somewhere--destination unknown--to make a rendezvous
with someone who is high-up. And no matter what, Clevis, I think it
wise for you fellows to keep on my trail, because at least one faction
of their gang is out to clip me hard. Sooner or later--if my luck holds
out as it has--they'll be sending someone of large proportions to
clobber me and then I'd like to have your gang move in fast. Preferably
before the clobbering gets too thick. And there's more to it--"

"Give," said Clevis in a flat tone.

"All right, you asked for it." Farradyne took the throat-whistle out of
his pocket and tucked it back against the curve of his tongue. He tried
it and produced a three-toned sound, brief and musical.

"That's the sort of thing I was telling people about," he said. "At the
Semiramide's crack-up. Three voices, I thought--then."

"That's the sort of half-witted story you tried to use at your trial."

"That's the sort of noise that Cahill made as he died. It's the sort of
noise made by Brenner-Hughes. Clevis, could it be the rudiments of some
odd new language?"

"How could you use it?"

"I don't know. Maybe a polysyllabic word like 'manifest' might turn out
to be a single chord with certain articulation spoken in three distinct
tones."

"How would you articulate?" asked Clevis.

"Well, you'd have to utter the same vocal sound sequence for all
registers of the word. The word I just used for an example is a rather
complicated series of sounds, with definitions I am not familiar with,
like dental fricative, and sub-dental stop. Regardless of the names of
the tongue-flappings," said Farradyne, "the word itself would have to
be revised in pronunciation."

Clevis shook his head. "With a gizmo such as you are choking on," he
said, "you'd have a hard time making a tone other than the one it's
tuned for. You're asking a lot, Farradyne. Furthermore, I gather that
you have a fair-to-middling ear."

"It isn't absolute pitch by a hell of a long way, but it is good enough
to make my face turn sour when the third violinist hits a crab on his
strings."

Clevis leaned back in the chair. "I'd be in bad shape," he said. "I'm
tone-deaf. Someone would say, 'Clevis, have a drink?' and I'd shake my
head because it sounded like 'Do you like radishes?'"

Farradyne eyed Clevis for a moment. "Supposing for the moment that this
odd evidence I have--"

"Based upon a grunt, a cry and an exclamation."

"--is true. Then mightn't they prefer to let people into their
organization who, they know, have a good pitch sense?"

Clevis looked back at Farradyne. "We've spent years following less
rational will-o-the-wisps than that. Perhaps we should follow this
crackpot idea for a couple."

"Well, let me toss you one more. During the next few days I am going to
startle Carolyn Niles, and I hope she cries out or whatever in three
notes. Then I'll have a tie-up."

"How so?"

"She has a hellflower-operator background. She'll have a three-noted
cry. And she'll be immune to the God damned flowers her gang deals in.
And there is something more than money in this."

"Okay, for the time being that's your game. But in the meantime, what
are you going to do with Norma?"

Farradyne eyed Clevis carefully. "You are going to drive off with her."

"What makes you think I'm going to drive off with a doped-to-the-eyes
hellflower addict?"

"Because one of the games I'm playing is nosey-nosey with Carolyn
Niles, and there's going to be no addict cluttering up my spacer.
She'd crumb up the whole deal for fair. You obviously know her, know
where she belongs. Take her to a sanatorium. That'll keep her out of
everyone's hair, especially mine, and she's on my trail."

"I guess this move is up to me. I hate to drop her in a sanatorium."

"What else can anybody do?" asked Farradyne, wistfully, spreading his
hand.

"Not much, but I feel that I owe her more than that kind of handling.
Not much more than a jail, you know." Clevis sighed.

"I can imagine. But what can you do for people cursed with a disease
that no one knows how to cure?"

"Segregate 'em," growled Clevis. "Well, let's see what we can do about
carting Norma out of the ship. When you ship out you will be followed
at extreme military radar range. You'll have hard-boiled company
watching you, Farradyne."

They went below and found Norma stretched out on the divan. She was
sleeping, relaxed as a kitten, with one leg drawn up to uncover the
other shapely leg. Her hands were outstretched over her head and open.
Her breathing was regular, and normal. The hellflower still cast its
heady perfume through the room, and Norma was smiling.

Farradyne plucked the flower from her hair. "This I'll need," he said
quietly.

Clevis nodded. "I'll carry her," he said. The Sandman picked Norma up
gently as she sleepily protested, but put her arms around Clevis' neck
and her head against his cheek and let herself be carried from the
salon.

Watching from the port, Farradyne reflected that they looked like a
happy party-couple, leaving after too many cocktails, with the girl
dozing on her man's shoulder.

Farradyne shrugged. Clevis had bought himself a bundle of trouble--when
she awoke, with Clevis, and without the love lotus.... He smiled
cynically, and went to bed....

Carolyn came aboard that evening and her first request was for her
"gardenia." She put it in her hair and stood there inviting him with
her eyes. Farradyne kissed her briefly and waved her to a seat.

"Tired of me, Charles?"

"I've had no time to get used to you, let alone tired of you," he told
her. "But I'm more than a trifle curious about this trip we'll be
taking in the morning."

"Why not let it wait until then?"

Farradyne looked at her boldly, made no attempt to hide his careful
appraisal of her figure and face. She accepted his brazen eyeing and
colored a bit. Then he said, "Let's admit it, there's nothing I'd
rather do than spend the night making love. It's my favorite indoor
sport. It's fun outdoors, too. But there are at least two things
against it."

"Two?"

He smiled. "You've made affectionate noises and a few statements
regarding your previous affections which lead me to believe that you
would not applaud me if I slung you over one shoulder and carried you
down to your stateroom. The second item is that the way to get ahead is
to marry the boss' daughter, not make her your mistress. Also if you
think for one moment that I have enough ice in my spine or hardening in
my arteries to make with happy-talk from now until six ack-emma, you're
wrong."

Carolyn leaned back and laughed.

"Carolyn, have you ever heard of _noblesse oblige_?"

"What has that to do with me--and you?"

"It applies. You are a damned attractive female, and as such you should
not use this attraction unless you want the man you are luring. Follow?"

Carolyn nodded. "I'll behave," she said. "I like you, Charles. No other
man has ever talked to me like that."

"Well, be careful or I'll prove to you that I am just like all the
rest. Now, how about this other deal? Or should we talk about the
weather--or chess, tiddly-winks, astronomy?"

"Astronomy. We see no stars on Mercury, you know."

"So it's up to the telescope. Come on."

Farradyne shook his head in amused concern. It was apparent that
Carolyn liked to play with fire; either that or she wanted to show her
own superiority to herself. She could hardly have known about the visit
of Norma Hannon, so she would not be aware of the fact that Farradyne
had been able to establish the validity of the hellflower. Mentally
Farradyne kicked himself. All he had done was to put the woman on her
guard. She knew it was a hellflower, she must know it. So this nice
little game she was playing was known to be a game.

So that made it even--both of them knew it was the real thing, both of
them knew she was immune.

This might be cricket, but it was not good management. This was not a
contest for the Glory of Good Old Siwash or to win the Golden Fleece.
This was a game where the loser never came to bat again, and once he
was Out, started polishing the Golden Gates or riding gain on the
servo-amplifiers for Mephisto's atomic hellfire. He had to pull a part
of this play back out of danger.

He had pulled a fluff--the obvious way to remove it was to admit it.

In the darkened control room, Farradyne reached forward and removed the
love lotus from her hair. He threw it into the chute that eventually
led into the incandescent reaction blast.

She turned and her face was dim in the starlight.

"Why did you do that?" she asked.

Farradyne lied calmly, "Because when I give you your next corsage, it
will be a bona fide gardenia if I have to get a pedigree from the guy
who grew it."

Her smile was a trifle bitter. "What would you have done if it had
worked?"

Farradyne laughed. "I didn't expect it to work."

"But--"

He went on swiftly. "Like several million other people I've been
wondering how you can tell a gardenia from a hellflower. Honestly, I
expected that you would take one look at the thing and then coldly
inform me that you knew the difference. Then I was going to ask you to
prove it. I was even going to be indignant over your thinking that I
would do such a thing. Upset, fraught with unrequited love and all that
bosh. I was prepared to maintain that I had bought the corsage in good
faith and that some joker like Cahill had played a gag on me, just for
kicks. Sooner or later you'd have told me how one could determine the
difference." He laughed bitterly and it was not hard when he thought of
Norma Hannon.

"Then," he went on, "you accepted it and put it in your hair, and I
know damned well that you can tell them apart. That made me think, and
I remembered that there are cases of women being immune. So I found
myself sheepishly afraid to explain, and let it go at that. Carolyn, I
just couldn't explain last night. But I do want to be honest with you."

He waited, hoping he had done a good job.

Carolyn put a soft hand against his face and then looked down. He
reached for her chin and lifted it. She blinked a few times, and then
smiled faintly. "Of course I knew what it was," she said. "And I know
that I am immune, so I took it and wore it. I wanted to see how you
would react. I wanted to find out why you did it. If you had done
it for the usual reason, I was going to lead you on until you were
incapable of control and then I was going to laugh at you and send you
packing." She looked up at him shyly. "I didn't want to think it was
for the usual reason."

She leaned toward him, but he took her by the shoulders and turned her
to face the telescope. At this, Carolyn put her head back against her
shoulder and rubbed her cheek against his.

"None of that," he said with a sharp laugh. "Hell, woman, you do fine
without a hellflower."

She turned in his arms and melted against him. He held her close
for awhile and then pushed her away from him. "We're running by the
rules, remember?" he said softly. "No fair, Carolyn. Think of my poor,
broken-down blood pressure, woman. Let's get back to astronomy. I may
live longer that way."

Astronomy is a fascinating hobby. Besides, this study required quite
a bit of close proximity, with his arms loosely around her so that he
could handle the setting-wheels on the telescope or Carolyn leaning
back against him as he looked over her shoulder to set the piece on
another object in the sky.

At midnight Farradyne showed her to her stateroom, and it was only
after he was in his own room that he remembered that she had carefully
ducked the explanation of how he could tell a love lotus from a
gardenia. He wondered at that. Maybe she thought he had not noticed the
careful steering away from the subject--and maybe a man who was going
into the business for what it was worth would not have noticed the
evasion.

Then there was the question of his own moral sense. So far as he had
appraised himself he had damned little such sense and most of this was
a matter of personal taste rather than observance of a set of rules.
More strange was the moral sense of the Niles family. It seemed to be
high except for their completely amoral disregard for what happened to
the hapless victims of their racket.

He went to sleep murmuring a line from a poem many hundreds of years
old that he had read as a youngster.

    "... their honor rooted in dishonor...."

Take-off was scheduled for six o'clock and Farradyne barely made it.
Fortunately there was only an Albemarle Seventy-One coming in on a
landing beam and he could take his Lancaster up with his eyes closed.
The Tower signed him out with a few remarks about sleepy people who
just got up and a yawn over the near-at-hand bedtime. Then the contact
was closed and Farradyne was a-space on the next leg of his journey.

Free from the control board, Farradyne had two choices. In his role
of lover he could rap on her door because he wanted to be near her,
or he could let her sleep because he did not want to disturb her.
He listened at her door on his way to the galley but he could hear
nothing; apparently she did not snore. He went on down and built
himself a plate of ham and eggs and a large pot of coffee, and thankful
for the quiet and the solitude and the freedom, he ate his breakfast
and then loafed in the salon, trying to plan his future course.

Carolyn made her appearance at ten o'clock and reproached him. He gave
her the stock answer, against which there could be no rebuttal, and
offered her breakfast. He was solicitous and gentle. He felt that with
four hours of nerve-soothing quiet behind him, he could play it with a
bit more relaxation.

"Where are we?" she asked.

"About a half-million miles out from Terra, I can figure it out for you
if you want it precisely."

She smiled at him. "It's important. How close is that 'about' a
half-million miles?"

Farradyne leaned back in his seat and closed his eyes as he went
through the familiar formula, tossing out the figures beyond three
significants. It took him half a minute of plain mental arithmetic
to come up with the answer, "Four hours at one gravity makes it six
hundred sixty thousand miles. There's some error there, caused by the
fact that our apparent gravity just at take-off was not much more
than one-point-three, and the pull of the earth was replaced by true
accelerations as the Terran gravity diminished. But those figures
should be close enough."

"I didn't think you could guess that close."

"That was no guess, it was a practiced estimate. I can come closer than
that with some thought. After all, a shoe salesman should be able to
call off the sizes of the shoes he sees on the street, and you know the
Classical Chinese Carpenter?"

"No."

"The Chinese Carpenter is an oriental who comes in and takes a careful
look where the plaster fell out of the ceiling, and then goes away and
cuts a hunk of plasterboard that exactly fits the holes without any
cutting or even shaving."

Carolyn laughed politely.

"But this is neither here nor there. There are two things to consider:
one is breakfast and the other is that we are on our way, but your
pilot does not know where he's going."

"Can you strike a line between Terra and Polaris at a distance of three
hundred million miles?"

"Duck soup," replied Farradyne. "But how fast?"

"Zero with respect to Terra at three hundred million."

"Let's go up and start computing," he suggested. "I'll construct you
some grub after we get the first approximation and we get the ship on
the preliminary correction course."

He led her up to the course computer in the control room where she
added the time of rendezvous to the rest of the figures. He plucked at
the keyboard steadily for a minute, then sat back while the calculator
machine went through the program of arithmetical operations for which
it was designed. He took the punched paper strip from the machine and
fed it into the autopilot, and then said, "Now we'll go below and eat."

"You haven't been waiting for me?"

He nodded, hoping that he looked a bit lovesick.

"You shouldn't have."

They went below and she eyed the dirty dishes with womanly amusement.
"You are a sweet sort of liar, Charles," she said, turning and coming
into his arms.

He returned her kiss, thinking, these are the "dames" that try men's
souls.




                                  14


Carolyn's eyes were fastened on the telescope, her attention was rapt.
There was a tiny signal pip at the extreme range on the long-range
radar that controlled the telescope, but the object was still too far
away. The range was closing slowly, but they would meet somewhere out
there, three hundred million miles above Terra to the astronomical
North.

Farradyne knew his instruments and his attention was therefore free to
think of other matters. Carolyn was busy at the "scope," so Farradyne
carefully and quietly slipped a long fluorescent lamp from its
terminals and stood it carefully on one end beside him. He balanced
it carefully and took a couple of silent steps toward Carolyn before
the tube lost its balance and fell to the floor with an ear-shattering
explosion.

It even shocked Farradyne, who knew it was coming.

Carolyn reacted like a person stabbed with a red-hot spear. Every
muscle in her body tensed as her nervous system twitched and she stood
there for a full ten seconds as stiff as a figure of concrete while the
shock gripped her. Then adrenalin poured into her veins and she started
to bundle up muscularly at the same time that she realized that there
really was no danger. Farradyne could see the relaxation of her body
taking place almost inch by inch.

The tension crept out of her silently until her breasts began to fall
in a shuddering exhalation. Then she sighed, and her tuneful voice was
a wordless trill of relief.

Farradyne's attention snapped into full awareness and he felt a thrill
of exultation run through him. Carolyn Niles' voice was a quavering
trill in _three lilting tones_.

Then the spell was gone and she relaxed against a brace holding one
hand under her left breast and breathing heavily. "What on earth--?"

"Lamp fell out of its moorings," said Farradyne. "My fault. That's
one of the pre-flight check-ups that I didn't have time to make this
morning. Stay where you are and I'll clean up this mess."

"Do you mind if I sit down? I haven't been that startled in years. I
thought the ship had exploded."

"Park yourself in the pilot's seat," he said. "But be careful. Broken
fluorescent tubing is doubly dangerous. The gook they put on the inside
is as poisonous as hell and the glass is as sharp as a razor."

She nodded and picked her way through the glass. She looked up at him
and said, "You don't seem to have been startled at all."

"I had a few millionths of a second to get my nerves in readiness," he
said. "I saw it come down. You took a beating."

"I guess I did," she admitted weakly.

Farradyne laughed; it was a forced laugh but he hoped it was
convincing. "Someone told me once that when a person is excited he
always reverts to his native tongue." Her eyes widened and her mouth
started to open, but Farradyne went on as though he hadn't been
watching avidly for some sign. "But I didn't think your native tongue
was Upper Irish Banshee."

Her eyes half-closed and her mouth snapped back from slack wonder to
toned self-control. "What did I say?" she asked with a half-humorous
smile, which Farradyne knew to be false.

"It sounded like, 'I am slain to pieces' but I don't know Upper Irish
Banshee very well."

"You're making fun of me," she complained pettishly.

"No I'm not. Not really. Anyone can be scared right out of his skin
when something like that happens unexpectedly."

"All right," she said, and the humor was gone from her voice. "So you
are not making fun of me. You've been playing a very serious game with
me, haven't you?"

Farradyne thought fast but came up with only, "What makes you think--"

"Let's drop our masks, Charles."

"Masks? Look, Carolyn, I'd rather go clean up this glass."

"Sweep it up, then. But while you're cleaning up, we'll talk seriously."

"About what?" He got a brush from the locker and a square of cardboard
from the bottom of a ream of paper, and started to collect the debris.

"What do you know about our language?"

"Damned little. Frankly, I'd had only a very insecure suspicion right
up to the moment that you admitted it that there was any language
involved."

"So I gave it away myself?"

"Yes."

"I knew you were smart, Charles. But none of us thought that you were
smart enough--"

"Thanks, m'lady."

"Stop it!" she cried. "What do you want of me?"

"What do I want of anybody?" he whispered in a voice thick with anger.
"I had four brutal years clipped out of the middle of my life by a
three-voiced unknown party who wanted to commit suicide bad enough to
take thirty-three innocent victims along with him. They blamed it on
Hot-Rock Farradyne, the spur-wearing spaceman." His voice came back
and he was half-roaring. "I've seen the results of the hellflower in a
ruined personality that might have been a brilliant and gracious woman.
I've seen a man plugged through the middle, to die at my feet. And on
top of that, I've seen a family of prosperous stability calmly making
their place in 'society' by dealing in the stinking things that brought
the ruin and the death to millions." His voice calmed to a cold,
brittle determination. "What do I want of you? Your lovely, flawless
hide skinned alive and spread seductively before a fireplace. That's
all."

She shrank away from him; looked wildly at the stairway and back into
his face as she realized there was no place in the spacecraft where she
could hide.

He sneered at her fear. "I'm not going to hurt you, now." His voice was
heavy with derision. "You're beneath my hurting you."

Carolyn drew herself together; somehow her self-confidence was
returning; perhaps it was the realization that he was not going to do
anything violent. "Why take your hatred out on me?" she asked. "Have I
done anything but--"

"You?" he asked. "You? How in hell should I know what slimy game you
are playing? You're all painted out of the same can, and the color is
black. I know that I am not the guy responsible for the Semiramide
affair, but who's to prove it? Who's the character that started tossing
the con-rods out of the Lancaster? What was your former boyfriend
doing on my ship? Setting me up for another kiss-off? Jesus Christ,
woman, you'll be asking me not to take these things personally next!"

"You shouldn't. They're the fortunes of war."

Farradyne roared, so loud that his voice echoed and reechoed up and
down the ship. "Fortunes of war be damned!" Then he stopped suddenly
and looked at her again. "War?" he asked. "Between whom or between what
and where? Who and what are you and your ilk? I--" He sat down and put
one hand to his head. Carolyn started to speak. "Charles--" but he
looked up and said, "Shut the hell up and let me think!"

"But I--"

"Shut up or I'll slap you shut!" Farradyne meant it, and Carolyn must
have understood that slapping her senseless did not conflict with his
aversion to violence. Not now. Not any more.

He had enough evidence to make a shrewd guess if he could only sort out
the hodgepodge, throw out the dross, hang the material end to end and
then take an impersonal look at it to fill in the gaps.

Some of it had to do with a combined suicide and wanton mass-murder in
a wrecked spacecraft; he should study that incident with the view of
discovering why it was done, and not why it had been done to Charles
Farradyne. There were the Nileses who probably went to church on
Sunday, belonged to the Chamber of Commerce and the Ladies' Aid and the
Civic Welfare and considered running hellflowers a proper business.
And the daughter, Carolyn, who wanted marriage and a home and a bunch
of kids to bring up into the same hellish business so well run by
their grandfather--just as she had been raised. Something important
hinged on the triple-toned voice which now had become more than a hasty
impression made under stress and excitement. Women who were immune to
the solar system's most devastating narcotic and used their immunity to
deal in the things with safety, bringing ruin to other women. It was
more than jealousy between women, it went farther than that. It was
a form of warfare, and this idea indicated an organization large and
well-integrated; capable of out-maneuvering capable and brilliant men
who had dedicated their lives to stamping out the racket--and who died
under the juggernaut instead of destroying it.

Well, there it was and what could he make of it?

No, there was more to be added. Brenner-Hughes, who tried to remove the
control rods of the reaction pile, and who was immune to marcoleptine.
That was an oddly shaped piece of the puzzle that suddenly dropped into
place with a click and coupled up two isolated chunks to make one solid
corner.

Farradyne put himself in the position of Professor Martin, who might
have been a survivor of the Lancaster foundering. Martin might ask why
someone had tried to kill him, just as Farradyne had so often asked
himself why Party X had tried to kill Farradyne in the Semiramide.
The answer was that Brenner-Hughes had not directed his efforts at
Martin, but at Farradyne, who had some knowledge that was dangerous
to the hellflower ring. Martin would have been the same sort of
innocent victim to the second episode as Farradyne had been to the
first. Party X had wrecked the Semiramide because there was someone
aboard with dangerous knowledge. There was a coldly operating group of
persons, immune themselves to drugs, who were efficiently undermining
the rest of the human race by preying on weakness, lust and escapist
factors that lie somewhere near the surface in the strongest of human
characters.

He raised his head and looked at Carolyn Niles.

She faced him squarely and asked, "Have you figured it out?"

"I think so," he said coldly. "There are a couple of gaps yet which you
can fill in."

"What makes you think I'll do it?"

"You'll do it," he said in a brittle voice. "For instance, what are
you, real or artificial mutant?"

Her laugh was strained and cynical. "Brilliant!" she said. "_Homo
Superior_, Charles."

"All right then, keep it clammed. But we'll find out."

"You haven't found out yet," she remarked pointedly.

"We didn't always have electric lamps, either."

Carolyn shook her head in a superior manner. "You did not discover
this thing either," she said calmly. "You were shown most of it
deliberately."

"Indeed?" His voice was sarcastic.

"We knew that someone high-up and undercover had furnished you with a
spacecraft and a forged license and set you to running into us, hoping
that your reputation would establish you as a racketeer. He used you
efficiently, so we used you more efficiently. There are two ends to a
fishline, Charles, and the fish and the fisherman never meet until one
pulls the other in. We caught Howard Clevis on the wrong end of the
line, so to speak. We also--"

"You caught Clevis?"

"As soon as we knew who your contact was we pulled him in. So if you
are expecting a flight of military craft to come racing up in time
to intercept the rendezvous ship we have out there, forget it. The
military are still on the landing blocks at the spaceport."

Farradyne whirled and peered into the radar. The single pip was close
and closing the range swiftly but there was nothing else on the
"scope." It was a huge ship, if the size of the radar response meant
anything and Farradyne peered into the coupled telescope.

Nothing like it could ever have been built in secret anywhere among the
habitable planets of the solar system. The size of it was such that the
metal alone, even if one piece were placed with each manufacturer to
conceal the process, would have attracted notice, and the rest of the
project would require the resources of a planet to feed it and the men
that built it. It would be like trying to build a four-hundred-inch
telescope in secret; the very least that could happen would be some
avid press agent taking note of a massive casting and using it in an
advertisement, and that would start the parade.

Farradyne turned away from the telescope. "Baby, what a sucker you
played me for!" he jeered. "So I was to be your lover, your husband?
Together, hand in hand we go to cement the first interstellar union.
The mating of a jackass and a triple-tongued canary, that the fruit of
such union will be half-assed and bird-brained." Farradyne's voice went
hard. "Well, if it's war your people want, we'll give it to you!"

Farradyne strode across the room toward the controls and as he came,
Carolyn's hand moved swiftly, catching up the microphone in a single
swoop and bringing it to her mouth. She had had the radio turned on all
the while, obviously, and Farradyne's tirade had been going out.

Carolyn cried a sing-songy rhythm into the mike. It reminded Farradyne
of an exotic trio chanting a ritual celebration of some heathen rite of
sacrifice.

He slapped the microphone out of her hand; the thing hurled out to the
end of its cord and jerked free, to crash against the far wall leaving
the cord-ends dangling open like a raw sore.

He caught her by the hair, lifted her out of the seat and hurled her
across the room. She fell and went rolling in a welter of arms and legs
until she came up against the wall beside the mike. She scooped it up
and hurled it at Farradyne's head, but he caught it in one hand and
dropped it to the floor.

He dropped into the seat and hit the levers with both hands. The
Lancaster surged upward, throwing Carolyn back to the floor in a
painful heap. The acceleration rose to three gravities, then to four.

"This trick we take," he gloated.

Carolyn moaned; it sounded like attempted laughter.

He looked into the radarscope and saw that despite his four gravities
of acceleration the monstrous spacecraft was matching him and closing
the range.




                                  15


Farradyne watched Carolyn uncaringly as she fought herself out of the
crumpled position and succeeded in flopping over on her back where
the four gravities were not making her body press against her arms
and legs. She spreadeagled on the floor and her chest labored with
the effort. Then she relaxed, because four gravities are not too
uncomfortable when lying on the back, even though the floor below is
hard.

"Forget it, Charles," she said slowly, and with some difficulty. "You
can't run away from a ship--that can go--faster than light."

"I can try."

"You can't win."

The radio speaker came alive, "Surrender, Farradyne! Stop and submit or
we fire!"

Farradyne's lips tightened as he fought the controls so that the ship
slid sidewise, putting another vector in its course. He twirled the
volume knob to zero on the radio with a violent twist of his wrist.
"They're your friends, and they don't mind killing you," he sneered.

"I'm not afraid to die."

"I am," grunted Farradyne. "I have some knowledge that I don't want to
die without telling."

"That's why I'm willing--to keep you from telling."

His hands danced on the levers and the Lancaster turned end for end
and sped back at the huge craft almost on a sideswiping course. Out
here intrinsic velocity meant nothing, the only thing that counted
was the Lancaster's velocity with respect to the velocity of the
spacecraft from the stars. He had one advantage, his ship was smaller
and therefore it must be more maneuverable. Furthermore he had the
advantage of surprise. He could go where he pleased, and the other
pilot must follow him. Since Farradyne's changes of pace and course
would come without warning, each switch would take a few fractions of
a second to follow. On land a few fractions of a second mean little,
but in space they mean miles. On land a quartering flight meant closing
of the range; in space where the pursuer could not dig a heel into
the ground and turn on a dime, quartering flight meant adding another
vector to the course.

He widened the gap.

Somehow Farradyne realized that because a ship could exceed the speed
of light, it did not follow that the ship would be able to catch an
elusive quarry.

He looked at Carolyn, plastered against the floor by four gravities and
realized that her race could be no more hardy than his, and therefore
four gravities was about all they could take over an extended period of
time. Maybe the more hardened space-dogs could take five or six, with
training and special seats and wearing equipment. His outfit protected
him more than the flimsy stuff she wore.

Here at least he was on an equal footing with the other spacer. It was
obvious to Farradyne that interstellar velocities did not depend in
any way upon reaching that speed by plain acceleration. A force field
of some unknown kind was needed, and this force field must not be one
that permitted the body to stand, say a thousand gravities or this
force field would go on and the other ship would catch him as easily
as a greyhound could catch a rabbit--and here in space there were no
brambles in which to hide.

He snapped his Lancaster around and crossed behind the course of the
other ship. Again he widened the gap.

He had only one thing to worry about. To the present moment and until
it became evident that he would get free of pursuit, this new and
sudden enemy was hoping to take him alive. So until it became evident
that he could make his escape he had nothing to fear. Once he was free
of them, he would have to face the terror of target-seeking missiles
capable of several hundred gravities of acceleration and equally
capable of turning in midflight if he managed to make them miss him.

He wished desperately for a cargo of bowling balls or steel castings
that he could strew in his wake. He cursed his lack of foresight in not
having the control rods replaced, because a few of them might have done
the trick.

Farradyne stopped cursing. He struggled to the computer and played a
long tune on the keys, ignoring the fact that the enemy had finally
lined up on his course from behind again and was closing range.
Recollection of Brenner-Hughes and the depredations in the pile-bay
had started a train of thought that Farradyne followed with growing
interest. It was long and involved and it depended upon a large amount
of luck, good planning and ability. He hoped all three were with him.

The Lancaster made one more complex turn as the end of the punched tape
entered the autopilot. Then, if Farradyne's computations were correct,
the Lancaster's nose was pointed at Terra.

The spaceliner behind, fooled again, made a turn and began to pick up
the space that had been lost.

Farradyne saw that he had plenty of time. He waited until the punchings
on the tape cut the drive a bit, and then he went below and came
back into the control room with Brenner-Hughes' space-suit. He got
out patching material and carefully repaired the triangular rip. He
cleaned out the strong-locker, putting the greenbacks into one of the
many pouches of the suit. Then he set about checking it, testing the
air-supply and purifier, filling the food pouch and the water tank. Men
had been known to last seventy-two hours in a suit like this without
any discomfort other than the confinement. The primary danger was
running out of oxygen and the secondary danger was thirst. How much
longer than the three days depended upon the character of the man and
when he had last eaten and taken his fill of water.

The suit was checked to Farradyne's satisfaction and he started to put
it on. "How handy are your friends with that big spacer?" he asked.

"Good enough," she said.

"You'd better pray for them to be better," he said. "Because your life
depends upon how handy they are."

"Charles, you can't possibly make it."

Farradyne paused; he wanted to take time for a last cigarette. He lit
one and puffed before he said, "Honeychild, I could outguess that gang
until Sol freezes over, except that sooner or later they'll get sick
and tired of the chase and end it by launching a target-seeking missile
and that would be that. I have no intention of sitting here and letting
them catch me, either."

"So what are you going to do?"

Farradyne reached up and stopped the clock. "I've punched a very
interesting autopilot tape. It'll dodge and swoop along at about four
gravities and lead your pals a long and devious way after you and I
part company. Four gee is enough to keep you flat on your attractive
behind so you can't louse it up. Since you can't measure time too
accurately, when they grab you, you won't be able to tell 'em just when
I took off and they'll have a fine time combing space for a man-sized
mote, making his course to Terra."

"Charles?"

Farradyne snubbed his cigarette out and dropped on his hands and knees
so that he could look down into her face. "You've pitched me many a
low, soft curve to the inside," he told her quietly. "Now you are
lying there looking helpless, with those big eyes telling me that I am
leaving you here to die. Good act, Carolyn, but this time you didn't
think it out far enough. By now you should have known Farradyne well
enough to realize that staying here will kill us both because I won't
be taken alive! By scramming, maybe we'll both live. This is one battle
you lose. And the last. But maybe we'll meet somewhere again to take it
up later."

He bent down with a cynical smile and kissed her on the lips. To his
surprise he found her lips responsive, but he had neither the time nor
inclination to carry the emotion any further.

"So long, Carolyn," he chuckled. "Some of this has been a lot of fun."

He finished donning the space-suit and then with a careless wave of
his hand he went down the stairs. She was not looking at him, but at
the ruined microphone and the raw cord-ends, and the radio equipment
far out of her reach. Panic showed in her face and it gave her some
strength, but not enough to fight the four gravities that held her flat.

Then as Farradyne lost sight of her, his jaunty self-confidence faded.
Up until not too long ago he had been complimenting himself on being
able to find out more about the hellflower operation than the Sandmen.
Now he knew the hellflower gang had been using him in a more efficient
manner than Clevis and the Solar Anti-Narcotics Department. It became
obvious to Farradyne that fighting a gang of cut-throats and fighting
an enemy race of intelligent people were about as different as he
really was from the brilliant operator he imagined himself to be.

It also required that he change his plans for escape. He knew that he
could flee the big ship and had a fine chance of being picked up by a
Space Guard scooter as soon as he could get within calling distance of
Luna.

But the chances were high that the hellflower people would have their
entire undercover outfit alerted and at the first touch of radio call
they would be swarming the neighborhood to pick him up. He would call
and several ships would answer; there would be a lot of calling back
and forth with the result that some "commercial spaceliner" would pick
him up, reporting the incident to the Space Guard, who would not even
take off from the station on Luna. Then Farradyne would be delivered
right back to the place he was leaving now.

He paused by the spacelock and cracked the big portal, and stood there
eyeing the huge starship, a tiny dot in the distance below, visible
only because its reaction flare limned the ship, making an annular
object against the cold twinkling stars. He kept the spacelock open
long enough to make it look like a real escape to Carolyn, who would be
watching the indicator lamp and marking the time.

Then he closed the spacelock and went down and down in the Lancaster
until he found the lowermost inspection cubby. He crawled in and
closed the hatch behind him. He settled down to wait with about the
same amount of wondering concern as the school boy summoned to the
principal's office without being told why.

Even the small amount of evidence that he now could use had been given
to him as bait to catch the one man who would be willing to listen to
him. He groaned and swore aloud and the sound of his voice echoed and
reechoed within the confines of his helmet.

Time creaked past and the Lancaster turned and curved according
to the punchings on the autopilot tape. Farradyne had only one
prayer--that the enemy would not get tired of the chase and fire a
missile that would end the whole game with a wave of intolerable heat
and indescribably bright light. Only Carolyn's presence aboard might
prevent that until the last moment.

Then the hour-period ended with the Lancaster pointing up and a
quartering course from Terra and Sol and a long, long way from the
point of supposed escape. Not long after that Farradyne felt the clink
of the magnetic grapples.

He tensed again. Would they fine-comb the Lancaster? Or would the
inevitable question and answer session that must ensue, once they found
Carolyn alone, convince them that he had abandoned ship? Would they
take her off and blast the Lanc' or would they deem it of value and
keep it?

His mind went on and on--how good was the radar? How alert was their
radar operator? Were both good enough to state unequivocally that there
had been no minute object leaving the ship on a tangential course, or
would there have been the usual clutter of noise and interference and
lack of anticipation so that someone could assume that he had left the
ship? Someone was going to get chewed for it in any case. Then assuming
that the enemy considered the ship valuable, where would they take it
and what would they do with it?

Far from feeling gratified at his maneuver, Farradyne was only
satisfied to be alive and temporarily out of the hands of the enemy.
What happened from here on in must be played by ear against an unknown
score for three voices.

The drive of the Lancaster dropped from four gravities to about one,
and Farradyne could hear, dimly, the clumpings of heavy feet coming in
through the rooms above him. Then the drive diminished again, remaining
at about a quarter-gravity or maybe less, and there were sounds of feet
above his head. He tensed and he tasted the acid in his mouth; he found
his heavy automatic and clutched it clumsily in the heavy space-glove.
Capture might be preferable to death, except that Farradyne was fairly
well convinced that the enemy could not permit him to stay alive
with what he knew about them, even though it was precious little and
unsupported.

The cubby he was hiding in was angularly shaped; to one side was
space beyond the hull-plates. Inside was the water-jacket that cooled
the throat of the reaction motor. Farradyne moved quietly around the
central pillar until he was on the opposite side from the inspection
hatch and settled down again.

On the plates above his head there were footsteps and the scraping of
something heavy being hauled across the deck.

He heard the sound of triple-tongued voices barking musical and
discordant sounds, distorted and muffled by the deck and the helmet
he wore. One fiddled with the inspection hatch and Farradyne found
the scuttlebutt and valved the air out into space knowing the enemy
would have a hard time cracking the hatch against the pressure of
one atmosphere. They gave up after a moment; then came the sound of
drilling on the deckplates above him. A cloud of whitish vapor spurted
downward and the sound of alien voices rose sharply as the drill came
through. Three more spurts of escaping air blasted downward and skirred
around the room to go in a fading draw toward the scuttlebutt.

Plugs filled the four holes and Farradyne turned his head torch on
them. They were heavy self-tapping bolts being turned in from above.

The maneuver was repeated three times, ninety degrees apart. Then there
was a softer sound of scraping and gradually the clumping of feet and
the sound of men at work faded away.

Farradyne took a deep breath and realized that his skin was itching
from the cold perspiration of fear that bathed him. The taste in his
mouth was brackish and his heart was pounding, his breath shallow and
rapid. He opened his mouth to gasp and discovered that he had been
clenching his teeth so hard that his jaw ached and his molars hurt.

He closed the scuttlebutt, but did not valve any air into his hiding
place. He put the top of his helmet against the deckplate above him and
listened. Far above he could hear them, still at work but they were
going higher and higher in the ship. He relaxed, waiting....

Three more hours passed, as nerve-wracking a three hours as Farradyne
had ever spent. Then, with absolutely no warning the drive went off
completely. He floated from the deck and scrabbled around to grab a
stanchion. He held on, finally getting his magnetic shoes against a
girder where they held him at an odd angle.

The drive went on to a full one gravity and hurled Farradyne flat
against the bottom of the cubby, wrenching his ankles slightly. The
drive went off again, on and finally off. This time it stayed off.

Floating free, with only his feet for mooring, was like resting in
a tub of body-temperature water, and as the lulling muscle-freeing
sensation went on and on, Farradyne dozed. From the doze, which was
fitful for quite some time, he dropped off into a deep slumber.




                                  16


Farradyne awoke to the pressure of about one gravity and he consulted
his watch. Either fourteen hours had passed, or thirty-eight, but he
could not believe the latter. A full clock-around was hardly possible
for Farradyne, even when he was dead tired, so one clock-around plus
fourteen hours was unthinkable.

He put his slumber at fourteen hours and then set his mind on other,
more important things.

The ship was silent. His suit hung from him limply, indicating that air
had seeped into the cubby again. He tried the scuttlebutt but no hiss
of air came. The Lancaster was a-planet.

It might be Terra, Venus or Pluto according to the pull of gravity,
but Farradyne did not think it likely to be any one of the three. He
suspected that whatever the gizmo was the enemy had installed on the
deck above him, it had something to do with transcending the limiting
velocity of light. He was probably grounded on enemy soil ... somewhere.

For a moment his mind grappled with the problem of interstellar travel
and lost the fight. It was possible, proven by the starship of the
aliens. But to come aboard with a gadget under one arm and install it,
like putting in a radio set, seemed entirely too simple. On the other
hand, Farradyne was sufficiently aware of basic physics to understand
that anything that could be used to create a condition where gross
matter could exceed the velocity of light would be something that did
not have to perform in conjunction with a matter-operated reaction
motor. He remembered, dimly, some fanciful theories written by some of
the white-tower boys in one of the big universities. These had been
experiments in field-theory and group-theory which had indicated that
under certain conditions, some rather minute spherical volumes of space
could be made to misbehave.

The difference was that with the physicists and their operations, a
vast room full of gear had been used to make a five millimeter sphere,
and the contrast was marked.

The meat of this matter was that the gizmo that made it possible
to travel faster than light must be some sort of field-generator,
and such a field-generator might well be packaged in small form for
installation. Whatever the science and whatever the location, Farradyne
could not hope to learn anything penned up here.

Again he listened. The ship was silent as the proverbial grave. He
cracked the inspection hatch and peered out. It was dark as the grave,
too.

Boldly he opened the hatch and stepped out. Under the light of his
headlamp, Farradyne inspected four rectangular metal boxes, painted a
nondescript gray. Cables led from one to another, terminating in white
metal connectors. The boxes were bolted to the deck by the self-tapping
bolts that had come through his ceiling.

From one of the boxes ran a cable that led to a wall-connector.

Like all other Solarian spacecraft, the Lancaster was well supplied
with a network of cables running up and down the length of the ship to
serve as test connections and spares for this or that equipment. This
made it possible to install some bit of gear for pleasure, comfort or
added maneuvering without having to tear half the ship apart to run the
necessary wiring.

The enemy had re-connected their multi-line cable to one of the
standard Terran connectors and plugged the cable into the Lancaster's
cable-plate.

Farradyne could see nothing about the metal boxes that would tell
him anything, so he left them and went aloft, cautiously. He doffed
the space-suit at the next level and hung it in a suit locker, and
continued to walk up the stairway that would lead him to the spacelock
and the salon.

Out of one porthole he could see the spaceport. It was broad and dark
except for a bouquet of searchlights that drilled into the sky around
the rim, a wash of floodlamps that surrounded one of the vast starships
many miles distant, and the far-off blur of bright, red light that
probably read "Spaceman's Bar" in whatever the natives used for a
printed language.

He left the viewport and went higher in his ship until he came to
the salon. He peered into it from floor level, but it was dark and
untenanted. The spacelock was open and Farradyne looked out of the
large round opening across the field to another starship standing a few
hundred yards from the Lancaster. The other ship was just as dark as
his, except for one small porthole that gleamed like a headlight in the
darkness.

The problem of where he was called him to the control room.

He looked into the sky, hunting for familiar constellations. The
Pleiades were there, but warped quite a bit and Farradyne found
that, while he knew they were distorted as an aggregation of stellar
positions, he could not remember their proper relationship. Orion was
visible, but the hero had hiked his belt up after a swing of his sword
at the mythical enemy. The Great Bear was sitting on his haunches
instead of prowling and the smaller Bear had lost his front feet.
Cassiopeia had gained some weight, enough to squash her throne and
Sirius no longer blazed in Canis Major. Procyon had taken off for parts
unknown, while several other bright stars dotted the skies in places
where no stars had been on Terra. It was likely that some of these were
merely displaced stars, but no one could tell Sirius from anything else
without a set of astronomical instruments and a few years of study
unless he knew which way Sirius was from this position.

Coldly and calmly Farradyne scanned the skies. Providing they had not
travelled more than forty or fifty light years, the constellations
before and behind the direct line of flight should be reasonably
undistorted, except for those stars that would have been bypassed en
route. This would only add a star or two to a constellation behind and
subtract the same from a constellation dead ahead. The ones to the side
of the line of flight would be misshapen and warped.

It would have been easier if he could have viewed the entire sky,
but he had to be content with one hemisphere. If he could find an
undistorted constellation with a few stars missing he had come in that
direction and, conversely, if there were stars added, he had gone away
from it past some of the stars between Sol and this enemy system.

He tried to recall visits to the big stellartarium in New York where
the lecturer displayed the skies as seen from various well known stars
that were within half a hundred light years of Sol. Certain sky-marks
and their displacement would be very helpful, if he could remember
them. But he found that he had not been as visually attentive as he
might have been, or that he had seen and been entertained and then
discarded the data as interesting but useless in a scientific culture
that firmly believed in the limiting velocity of light.

Finally he gave up hoping to establish his whereabouts by visual
inspection. He found a small pad of paper and began to make layouts of
the familiar constellations as he saw them. Someone among the planets
of Sol would be able to measure the angles and changes and come up with
the right answer within a few light years, and stars were sufficiently
separated so that the chances were good for a reasonable identification.

He put a dozen small pages in his pocket and then took his first look
at the control room. He could see nothing changed at first, but then he
found a small auxiliary panel beside the pilot's seat which contained a
bar-topped toggle switch and three pilot lamps that were different in
appearance from the rest of the Lancaster's standard equipment.

He felt an urge to try the toggle, but fought it down. It was too much
like playing with toy building blocks made of sub-critical masses of
plutonium, and Farradyne wanted to stay alive long enough to watch
the downfall of the enemy, not participate in the explosion. Curbing
his human curiosity to fiddle with strange gadgets, Farradyne turned
away from the board and went to the cupboard where he took out his
binoculars.

He was astonished to find out how far away the starship really was, and
how big it was when it leaped into closer view in the glasses. It was
still as dark as an untenanted building except for that one lighted
porthole, but the angle into the cabin beyond was too steep. Farradyne
could see nothing more than the corner between the opposite wall and
the ceiling. He toyed with the idea of trying to lift himself to the
top of the dome, but gave it up because he realized, once he removed
the binoculars from his eyes, that the additional few feet of height
would not change the distant angle enough to make it worth his while.

The question of what to do next perplexed him. Obviously there was no
answer. There could be no plan. He would have to play it by ear again,
with the other guy calling the moves. He grunted unhappily; he could
not even smoke because he feared to show even the smallest light. But--

Farradyne went down to his galley and opened a can of mixed space
rations which he shovelled in cold. It filled him adequately but not
tastily and he realized that the best of fine food would have been
stowed away in a frenzy of nervous listening for the inevitable sounds
of the enemy's return. With haste, Farradyne cleaned up the evidence of
his presence, thinking how ridiculous it was to be stealing from his
own spacecraft.

He was finishing up this job when the faint glint of a distant flash
of light caught his eye. He hurried to the porthole from which the
glint had come, and peered out. A large caravan of heavy trucks was
snaking around the corner of a distant building and turning onto the
spacefield. Their headlamps cut forward like scythes of light, cutting
a brilliant path toward the Lancaster.

Farradyne did not deem it wise to sit this out. They might have been
heading for the other side of the field, but if they weren't he was
trapped. He went aloft to the salon and scuttered down the landing
ramp, around the back side of the poised spacer and away from the
direction of the trucks, running in the shadow cast by the Lancaster.
Five or six hundred yards away was another spacer, and it was
completely dark. Farradyne scurried around the widespread tail fins of
the monster and stood there, peering at the caravan from between the
angle made by the tail fin and the in-curving body of the spacecraft.

The trucks came around the Lancaster, surrounded it in a circle, and
then a blaze of lights came, lighting the Terran ship from dome to
reaction funnel. Ladders were sent aloft and a huge crane lifted. The
calls of workers and the directions of their superintendent came to
Farradyne clearly. He wondered what they were doing and saying; except
for the three-toned voices that added an audible complement of women
and children to the gang, it sounded like any work party on earth
yammering in a strange tongue.

He watched for an hour, and then he saw that the distant sky was
beginning to show a very faint glow of gray. Sunrise--or perhaps a
false sunrise, he could not tell.

He scuttled like a human spider away from the direction of the work
party until its flood lights were a distant miniature stage setting.
He wound in and among silent, dark spacecraft, avoiding those with
lights even though he had to detour wide for the sake of this safety.
Eventually he came to the far side of the spaceport.

He cased the place warily from behind the fin of a spacer, looking at
the dark, silent buildings and wondering if this gang of aliens had
ever heard of night watchmen. He did not trust the quiet darkness of
the apparently uninhabited spaceport because he was suspicious and he
knew that other people were as suspicious as he was. He was glad that
he did not barge in brashly, for along about the first glimmers of real
graying sky, a man came out from between two of the buildings waving a
searchlight. He sauntered along in front of the nearest building and
disappeared between it and the next.

Farradyne skipped across the space and went into the gangway the
watchman had just come out of. He walked warily through and came to
a high wire fence. Keeping to the building side of the clearance-way
between fence and building, Farradyne skulked along in the direction
opposite to that taken by the watchman.

He needed a minimum of two items: A set of Planet X clothing and a way
out of this rattrap.

He found the way out a few minutes later.

A dim striking of a bell alarmed him until he realized that it was
tolling, rather than clamoring an alarm. He followed the tolling for
seventeen bongs and came upon a small sentry house perched beside an
open gate. As the tolling stopped, the man in the house stretched,
yawned and got up, picking up a searchlight. He stepped outside and
looked around in a bored manner.

The watchman took one look at the open gate some ten feet from his
position and shrugged. He turned his back on it and disappeared between
a couple of buildings not far from Farradyne's place.

Farradyne grinned. Obviously it had been so long ago since any trouble
had been this way that the guard-system had become lax. Farradyne
praised laziness and complacency highly as he sped across the open
space on silent feet and passed the gate on his way to the outside.

Dawn was breaking and the chill of the morning nipped at him. He had
broken free, but it was just as dangerous for him to remain in front of
the open gate as it might have been for him to be roaming around the
spaceport in the full light of day. He turned to the right and started
to walk along the road toward a group of small buildings a few hundred
yards from the spaceport.

The second item Farradyne needed came later. He had sauntered along
several deserted streets in the gray of dawn and down a couple of
alleys and through a vacant lot or two until he was quite some distance
from the spaceport. Here, in a dimly lighted district Farradyne met
his Planet X clothing.

The stranger did not have a chance. He had been drinking or sniffing
whatever the enemy used for celebration and he had used too much.
Farradyne's hard fist came out of somewhere and the stranger went down
like a log, silently. Farradyne dragged him into an alley and stripped
him to the skin.

His own clothing Farradyne stuffed in a trash barrel, pushing the
bundle down below the rest of the rubbish in the hope that the barrel
would be collected by a couple of hard-working and uncurious men who
would never note the alien cut to the cloth.

He left the fellow naked to suffer both a hangover and a lot of
embarrassment.

Then in the pleasantly bright dawn, Farradyne walked boldly down the
city street jingling a bunch of native coins in the side pocket of
his costume and feeling just a trifle silly, like an introvert at a
fancy-dress ball. The trousers were striped gaudily and the loose
jacket hugged his waist a bit on the too-tight side. There was a widish
hat and a pair of shoes that could have been put on either foot. He
looked like a character out of an old-time musical comedy and he hoped
that his costume was not the kind worn by Planet X-ians as formal
evening wear because then he would look silly to them wandering around
in the morning light like a man caught far from home at six ack-emma in
a tuxedo.

Eventually he passed a shop window and saw other garb like the junk he
was wearing and he felt better.

He had every faith in the belief that people are disciplined against
striking up an acquaintance with a total stranger, and so he turned
into what was obviously a main thoroughfare and strolled along it until
the streets began to fill with people.




                                  17


There was no doubt about the alien quality of the city. But in its
functional qualities, it was very familiar. These, he realized, were
developments that had been found to be effective over a long time of
sheer operation; functions that would have been mechanically similar
on any planet no matter how alien, so long as its inhabitants breathed
air, ate food and perambulated. Buildings were mostly squarish blocks
cut with windows and doors; shops had broad windows for displaying
their wares and even the wares were not too exotic. Clothing stores
and gewgaw stores and food shops and now and then one that sold stuff
that was not to be identified by a stranger.

The streets and alleys and gutters and sidewalks were normal. Traffic
ran to the left, however, which gave Farradyne some trouble because
he had been used to stepping from the curb and glancing to the
right. Drivers squawked at him with their horns and swore at him
in their multi-tongued voices. Farradyne forced himself to learn
this left-handed traffic problem; he did not want to be handed a
traffic ticket, nor did he want to be asked by some policeman for an
explanation of his stupidity.

By now the sun was well above the horizon and the streets began to
teem. The air began to sing with the noise of people chattering,
greeting one another, and generally making a racket resembling a
Chinese laundry in an air-raid. He heard the clash of metal on metal
and turned to watch a couple of drivers arguing over their dented
fenders. As he walked with his head turned, Farradyne bumped into
someone and the man chittered something at him angrily. Farradyne
nodded humbly and grunted under his breath and hurried on. So did
the other man, who merely replied to Farradyne's grunt with a single
three-toned discord before veering off and away.

He had to be careful, he told himself; he had found this city so
closely resembling a city of his own system that he had become
careless. He knew by now that if he conducted himself without
attracting attention and if he walked without cringing, no one would
think to stop him for questioning.

What had Carolyn said? Something about their springing from the same
basic stock some fifty thousand years ago? Well, anyway, these were
of the same family of curious apes who were gregarious enough to band
together and still individualistic enough to resent any intrusion upon
privacy. There would most certainly be three-toned hell to pay if he
opened his own trap, but so long as he kept it shut, they had no way of
telling him from any of their own kind.

And so he walked among them for hours, until the crowd thinned and the
traffic became less boisterous and frantic and the city settled down to
the quieter routine.

Farradyne found it hard to place this cosmopolitan culture in the same
niche with the society that appeared to be systematically undermining
the Solarian civilization. It was quite similar to the paradox he had
found in the Niles family. It was as though murder was an honorable
enterprise and that the dope-sales were listed on the daily stock
exchange under the commodities section.

Farradyne had expected to find some monstrous ugliness here. A police
or slave state would not have surprised him; it was such a culture that
usually fostered villainy. Instead he found a city much like his own
and it was hard for Farradyne to shake off the feeling that the only
misunderstanding between them was the age-old barrier of tongue.

Eventually he came upon an ornately carved building that stood with the
doors open. People were sauntering in and out with no obvious barrier,
and so Farradyne followed one group at a little distance and went into
the building.

It could have been any museum on Terra, for the lifeforms displayed
were as bizarre as any of the stranger bits of art work on the earth
or other of Sol's planets. He came upon a quiet hallway that had a
non-scale model of the solar system; it was a working orrery that told
Farradyne nothing other than that this system had eleven planets and
a batch of satellites. None of the planets had rings like Saturn. He
looked for something that could identify the parent sun for him, but he
found nothing familiar about any of the displays, except one.

There was a small model of Sol and its planets on a pedestal, and while
the sight was familiar, the lettering below the display was not. If the
legend said anything about distance and direction, it was not only in
the alien's terms, but in the alien's written language.

To find out where in the sky he was, Farradyne needed a fast course in
Planet X-ian language, and then a six months' concentrated course in
uranography. He began to understand that the matter of being lost is
only a dislocation of your own frame of reference. Cities do not have
large signs around the streets saying "This is Chicago" because any man
in his right senses knows that he is not in Detroit, and if he does
not, there are better places for him than either city.

He shunned the opportunity of visiting the enemy planetarium. Having
some lecturer explain the heavens as seen from Planet X in a trio-voice
would get him nowhere.

He left the museum and began to trudge back toward the spaceport. He
was hungry again, and the morning and early fore-afternoon had been
frustrating, even though it had been enlightening to find that the
aliens lived and breathed and enjoyed themselves like people instead of
the cold inhuman monsters he had expected.

Again Farradyne watched his fellows carefully. It seemed that one
medium slug would buy him a wad of paper that could be nothing other
than the afternoon news, after which he would get two smaller slugs in
change. He strode to the newsstand with a what-the-hell feeling and
tossed down one of the medium slugs. He scooped up one of the papers
and two of the smaller slugs and walked away without saying a word. The
newsman watched the transaction without turning an eye. Then Farradyne
folded the paper through the middle and tucked it under his arm and
sauntered along like the absent-minded professor until he found a
quick-grab joint that opened on the sidewalk.

He stood at the counter scanning the wall-menu as though he knew what
it said until the waitress sounded off at him. He looked down at
her with a frown of irritation, and then waved two fingers at a hot
plate full of flat square things floating in an oily sea of juice. He
unfolded his paper and immersed himself in a page while the waitress
scooped two of the flat things from the plate and slid them between
folds of something like a bun. She shoved them beneath the lower edge
of Farradyne's paper on a flat plate and stood there mewing at him like
a trio of alley cats.

Acting in an absent manner Farradyne took two of the larger slugs
from his pocket and dropped them on the bar. The waitress took one,
deposited it in a register with a shrug, as if she had seen oddly
absorbed characters before, and returned with three of the smaller
slugs which she piled on the bar beside Farradyne's remaining coin.

He munched his greasy God-knows-whats and while he mentally complained
about the flavor and the greasiness, he was forced to admit that they
were more satisfying than his earlier cold can of mixed space rations.

Then he folded his paper (wondering whether he had been absorbed
in a lonely hearts column, the local stock market, or a nice lurid
sex-slaying) and sauntered off toward the spaceport. He made it in
easy steps, angling this way and that and wandering like Haroun al
Raschid, but feeling more like that other fabled Arabian who was forced
to remain in the body of a stork because his bird's mouth could not
pronounce the magic word in the proper language. No one paid him any
attention.

The sum and substance of his adventure was the feeling that a hyena can
walk through a monkey cage so long as the hyena has enough sense to
wear monkey clothing and keep his big bazoo shut, and an opinion that
it was a damned shame that such nice-appearing folks could be such lice.

By the time Farradyne returned to the vicinity of the spaceport it was
getting along toward late afternoon. It was a long day on Planet X
and if Farradyne's judgment of time were anything worth mention, the
day had still some hours to go until the real darkness came. He had
no watch. A watch would have come in handy for time estimating even
though there stood an excellent probability that the length of the day
did not match anything like the Terran standard of time. He had dumped
his wrist watch along with his own clothing because it was obviously
alien; the watch he wore was his victim's but it was calibrated in
Planet X time and Farradyne had not had a chance to compare times, nor
to sit quietly and observe the relative motions of the several hands
around the dial.

He was too early, but he had no other place to go. He could see across
the spaceport to the Lancaster, where the cranes still poised high and
the work went on, but still he had no more urge to return to the city.

Farradyne observed the entry of others carefully, and discovered that
there were a couple of smaller ships taking on passengers, and that a
number of people were coming along to watch them off. It looked like
the operations on the average civilian spaceport, where people were
not herded around nor treated with suspicion. It caused Farradyne to
think that obviously the people of Planet X were all in accord on the
plans of their undercover attack on Sol. Farradyne smiled sourly, on
the planets of Sol any such venture would have been greeted with every
shade of reaction from eager applause to outright hostility.

Farradyne was more than willing to take advantage of their obvious
self-confidence or lack of concern over the possibility of sabotage,
espionage, or enemy action. He was fitting himself unobtrusively into a
group of people who were entering the main gate of the spaceport when
he heard the raucous toot of an automobile horn.

Like all the rest, Farradyne turned to look. An official looking
limousine was slowly coming up that broad drive. In it were driver,
three guards, and--

"Norma Hannon!" he said with astonishment.

Then Farradyne felt the cold chill of fear crawl down his spine because
he knew that he had made a hideous mistake. He turned away slowly,
hoping that the others were turning as slowly to go about their own
business. He started toward the spaceport, only to find a uniformed
guard barring his way.

The guard chimed at him tersely.

Farradyne took his guts firmly and eyed the guard with a contempt that
he did not feel. "Talk Terran," he snapped.

The guard blinked and chimed some more, less tersely but no less
demandingly.

"Talk Terran," snapped Farradyne firmly. "Or I don't hear you. I know
too many who've let down too often and relaxed into their own tongue.
They aren't alive."

"I don't speak Terran very well."

"Well, damn it, learn it!" roared Farradyne. "You'll be needing it soon
enough. Now, what did you have to say to me?"

"You heard me, but I'd rather--"

Farradyne relaxed with a grin. "No, I didn't. You could impugn my
wife's virtue and I wouldn't listen to you. So now let's start over
again."

"I was going to ask--"

"No," said Farradyne shortly. "Not that way. I said 'start' and I meant
that we'd start _thinking_ in Terran, like I've learned to do.
Now, you addressed me properly and I said, 'Talk Terran!'"

"Oh. Er, look, you're not going to make me repeat it?"

"Why not?"

"I'd feel like a fool. After all, a mistake is a mistake, isn't it? I
could hardly know that you were one of the Terra group, could I? After
all, you're not dressed in Terran clothing."

Farradyne saw a glimmer of doubt in the guard's face; Farradyne should
have been in Terran clothing if his intention was to stay as Terran
as possible until the bitter end. He merely smiled, thinking fast.
He said, "Don't want to attract any more attention here than I do on
Terra. Frankly, I'm masquerading here. See?"

"I guess you're right. You can speak to your own group, but others can
see you. Tell me, sir, what is it like? On the planets of Sol?"

"Pleasant enough."

"Is that so? I've heard they were rich. But the people? Are they as bad
as I've heard?"

"Worse," said Farradyne, thinking that propaganda was as universal as
anything could be. He began to itch. How could he break this off before
he really did give himself away? The cold sweat that had been running
down his spine at the time of the guard's first hail, which had dried
in the exultation of knowing that he had succeeded in turning the
guard's suspicion away, now started to itch again as another sweat came
out to wet the dried salt.

Farradyne was saved the trouble. The car tooted for attention again and
Farradyne turned to see it coming back from the spaceport.

"There goes the other one," said the guard, nodding at the car. It
passed them and Farradyne saw, with less astonishment this time, that
the new one was Howard Clevis.

"Sure does," chuckled Farradyne. "And now so do I."

"You've plenty of time before they hop off for the colony. But go on,
and good luck! I'll remember what you said about thinking in Terran."

Farradyne waved and went into the spaceport. He was walking on wobbly
legs, because he did not know whether the guard would suddenly begin
to suspect him and let fly. But as he passed beyond range around the
fantail of a big spacer he relaxed once more.

Farradyne walked slowly out across the field, feeling let down. He had
learned nothing from the day's wandering, but while he dawdled all over
town, Norma Hannon and Howard Clevis had been within a shout of his
Lancaster. Not that he could have done anything, but just being able to
talk it over might have brought something out of meeting up with them.

Night was slow in coming, but Farradyne loafed along on his mile and a
half walk through the tails of the parked spacecraft until darkness was
well on its way.

Two things he noted:

The work-crew around the Lancaster were polishing off the last bits
and some of the trucks were folding down their ladders and preparing
to take off for home. The other item was the position of the lonely
lighted porthole in the big starship. It had changed. To Farradyne this
meant only one thing. Clevis had been in one stateroom from early that
morning or late last night, but Norma had been missing. Now Norma was
back to her own stateroom and Clevis was off, possibly being questioned.

Could he--should he--? Questions raced through his mind. And if he did,
would Norma be able to tell him anything? He had his own plans; to hide
back in his Lancaster and wait out developments. At least long enough
to throw a hard hammerlock on whatever pilot came to drive the Lanc'
and twist information out of him.

Norma, he thought then, might know one thing: Their location. It would
be a help to know. For if push came to shove, Farradyne was going to
enter the Lancaster and take her up and then he was going to experiment
with that auxiliary drive. He might die, but he was going to try the
thing as soon as he knew that he could never find out without taking
the long gamble.

One of the work trucks made up his mind for him. It turned from the
Lancaster and its headlamps cut a swath across the field, swinging
toward Farradyne. It took Farradyne less than the proverbial half
a jiffy to come to the conclusion that bamboozling a guard at the
gate was one thing, but to be found slinking around either near the
Lancaster or the big starship was something else again.

He avoided the lights of the truck by scooting up the landing ramp of
the starship and into the spacelock. It occurred to Farradyne as he
went that the lack of people, including guards, out in this region of
the spacefield was in a way its own protection. Any distant watcher
seeing a figure out here would know automatically that the person was
an intruder; perhaps the only reason Farradyne had not been hailed down
was due to the known presence of workmen.

Farradyne lay with his chin on the sill of the spacelock and peered
out as the truck went by. It would be some time before they were all
finished, he concluded, and so he decided to kill the time in action.

Feeling his way along the dark corridors, Farradyne made his way aloft,
up the stairways and around the circular floors until he came upon
the one door with a streak of light coming underneath it. The light
helped him see; the door was secured with a single bolt of the sliding
variety, easy to open from the outside but impossible to move from
within.

Farradyne slid the bolt and pushed open the door.

Norma was standing inside, poised defiantly with her hands on her hips,
waiting. For a moment she did not recognize him, then her face twisted
and said, "Well! If it isn't our interstellar man-about-space, Charles
Farradyne!"




                                  18


"Now see here," he said shortly, "Clevis must have told you about me."

"I knew that you and Clevis had something cooked up together the first
time I saw him come into the Lancaster without a blazing gun in each
hand," she said sourly.

"Well, then you ought to know that I'm--"

"You're a damned idiot, Farradyne! You bumbling fool!"

"But look, I'm here--"

"Where?"

"I was hiding in the inspection hatch. I couldn't see out. Don't you
know where we are?"

"They didn't think I'd find it necessary to know," she replied
bitingly. "You fancy pants!"

Farradyne swore in his throat. "Now I'll ask you whose side you're on,"
he snapped. "I came here to--"

"Whose side I'm on?" she laughed harshly. "Whose side are _you_
on, Farradyne? I hope you're on their side; you're bound to louse them
up sooner or later."

"Look, Norma--"

"So you come bubbling home with the bait in your mouth, unable to feel
the hook, and hand it to Howard to get caught on. Go back where you got
that monkey costume and die."

"Norma, answer me one thing. Who was Frank Hannon?"

"Frank? Frank was Howard's right hand undercover man, Farradyne. He
had the goods on a man whose name no one knows; he didn't say because
he didn't have the chance. He had it all with him when you dumped the
Semiramide."

Farradyne eyed her coldly. "There's one thing you've got to admit," he
said. "That tale of my three-tongued people was no lotus-dream."

Her silence was as good as a grudging affirmation.

"So part of the pattern is clearing up," he went on. "But if Clevis
found me because I'd had four rotten years mucking toadstools on Venus,
I'm not above wondering if this was not part of some master plan. Could
someone have wrecked the Semiramide and saved me to act someday as bait
for Clevis?"

"Isn't that just a bit far-fetched?"

"Maybe and maybe not. Just think. We're not merely fighting an
apparently well-integrated mob of dope-runners. We're fighting a
blind battle against a whole culture that is calmly and maliciously
undermining the moral fiber of the whole race so they can move in and
take over with little or no opposition. Doesn't that make sense? Such a
program has plans that extend for years; I may be only one small angle,
although mine happens to be the angle that worked. Don't tell me you
expect warfare to be run like a football game, complete with referees
and penalties for kneeing a fallen contestant in the kidneys."

Norma considered it a moment. "I suppose it does make sense. Any formal
declaration of war is an openly expressed intention of committing
suicide. But you explain yourself if you can."

Farradyne shrugged. "Maybe for the first time I out-guessed them," he
said hopefully. He went on to explain how he had done it in a few quick
sentences. "Then," he finished, "the big ship didn't even try to find
me--the little man that didn't escape. I also doubt that they knew
where I was, or they'd not have let me run free all over town." He went
on and finished the tale of his peregrinations.

"We saw them catch the Lancaster," she said. "We wondered just why you
suddenly went dead at the stick after giving them such a chase. Well, I
guess that's it. I'll go on the assumption that you aren't a hellflower
devil."

"Thanks," he said bitterly. "And, why the sudden change?"

"I've heard this three-toned language that everybody was so scornful
about. I've heard a lot of it. I know that a full-scale organization
such as this bunch can and will pull some rather complicated capers,
so I am no longer sure that it was your inept handling of a spacecraft
that caused the death of my brother. He was on someone's trail and
I've assumed it was you. Maybe it wasn't. And if it wasn't then the
Semiramide affair was not even an accident on your part. So, damn you,
I can't hate you any more."

"You can't hate me?"

"Not unless you turn out to be one of this outfit. And for the life of
me I can't see just what you hope to learn from me that I didn't spill
during their questionings."

"Did they--" he let the rest of the sentence hang because he didn't
know just how to express it.

"They know everything I know," she said. "I've been filled to the
gills with something they shot out of a needle that made me as happily
loquacious as a babbling marmoset."

"Did they explain why they brought you back here? It seems to me they'd
imprison you."

"That's for later. They're now comparing my tale with Howard's and
after they get done comparing notes they'll bring Howard back and we'll
take a little jaunt to what they call their 'Detention Planet' where
I'll meet a certain number of other Solarians who have gotten a bit
too sharp for their liking. It's in another stellar system, I believe,
completely safe and far from home and as a last lever in this war
they'll hold the lives of a few hundred thousand men and women over the
heads of Terra."

Farradyne swore. "The stinking bastards!"

Norma shook her head coolly. "That's emotion, Charles. I don't know
exactly what their purpose is, but I do understand that this is a
conflict of eventual survival, and rule of an economic empire."

"But--"

Norma shook her head. "Try the shoe on the other foot, Charles. Suppose
you had come upon these people with the rest of your kind--how would
you see them?"

"As possible allies and friends."

"Balderdash! You'd have seen them as possible customers and people to
be exploited and maybe enemies after you'd seen their history. Their
attitude is as arrogant as ours and their personal justification as
high. By some obscure luck of science they got to interstellar travel
before we did and they automatically place us in an inferior position,
but they also know that this inferiority is not so great as to make
us a pushover. We are scientifically capable of discovering their
interstellar drive at any moment, and why we have not is probably just
a matter of our not combining the right sciences. Our knowledge of
medicine is far vaster than theirs, for instance."

"How can you know this?" he asked.

Norma opened a few buttons at her throat and slipped her dress down
over one shoulder. There was a small circular bandage stuck to one
spot. "They took a sample of me," she said. "Because I seem to be
immune to several diseases that should give me trouble. When I asked
about this, they told me that they hoped to discover just what cell
change took place when we take our anti-cancer immunization. This thing
they have yet to discover. Oh they use our immunization," she said,
slipping the dress up but forgetting to rebutton it, "but they use it
as an African witch doctor might use a typhoid serum."

She nodded as she went on thinking, "This thing you have to remember,
Charles, that if Terrans had arrived there first there would have been
the same conflict, but conducted from the other side."

Farradyne shook his head angrily. "We're not inclined to ruin--"

"Stop sounding like one of King Arthur's Knights. Men of sense and
good judgment don't request their enemies to meet them on a field of
honor. Instead, a state of war is assumed and from that instant on, A
is looking for a chance to stab B in the back because he knows that B
will cut him off at the hips if he turns his back for a moment. Honor
on the battlefield is accorded only to a defeated enemy; up to the time
he is defeated, anything goes. And if both sides know that open warfare
means total destruction, the process on either side is one of boring
from within, or gnawing at the foundation. But this a bad place to get
involved in a discussion of ethics. Where do we go from here?"

"If I knew how to run that ka-dodie in the Lancaster we'd head for
Sol--if I knew where Sol was from here."

"And how about Howard?"

"I don't know about Clevis," he told her. "The thing to do would be
to hike home as fast as we could and spill our tale to the people who
would know what to do about it. Let's face it, Norma. They can mingle
with Terrans because they can speak our language. But I couldn't mingle
with them to locate Howard. I'd be picked up in a minute."

"So how do we get back?"

"Why do you think they brought the Lancaster?"

"Probably to fit her out as a bona fide hellflower runner."

"Okay. We'll hide out in my cubby until they run her back."

"You go hide out," said Norma. "If they find me missing, they'll know
something smells bad."

Farradyne chuckled. "From what I know of them, they're as arrogantly
secure as the Gods of Olympus. Some part of their gang is still
expecting me to turn up near Terra on an escape course, and the only
smart thing I have done is to be where they didn't plan me to be. So
we'll be where they don't expect us to be and maybe we'll get away with
it. Come on, let's hide out."

The hitch in their plans came when Farradyne led Norma down the stairs
to the last deck below and stopped, holding up a warning hand.

"What's the matter?" she whispered.

He pointed. The hatch he had used was lying to one side and a beam
of diffuse light was coming up from below. There came also the
triple-tongued voices of two men.

Farradyne led Norma one deck above where he could speak without
attracting the attention of the men below. "They've installed the space
drive in the inspection cubby," he said. "That's probably what all the
work was about. It's been taken from the bottom deck and permanently
installed down in the cubby where it wouldn't attract attention on a
casual tour. Maybe a different unit, I wouldn't know; the temporary job
might have been only a harness-job to be used until they could haul the
Lanc' to base for a real tear-down and rebuild."

"I didn't see any work-wagon," said Norma.

"Maybe not, but the workman is here, and tuning up the drive. We can't
get below now."

"So what do we do?"

"I've half a hunch that they won't leave this ship standing idle long.
Let's hide in the cargo hold until they stop tinkering."

Norma nodded thoughtfully. "Let's wait it out," she said. "Then if we
have trouble, I can slope and run out of here like a startled rabbit
and draw the chase away from you."

"You make the escape," he suggested, "I'll do the hare and the hounds."

Norma shook her head. "Let's use logic, and not emotion," she said
calmly. "I'm known to be here, you're not. So if I cut and run and they
catch me, that's it. But if you're caught running loose on this joint,
they'll also start looking for me. If I carry my point, you'll still be
unexpected. Follow? And someone may get back--the other way, no?"

"I suppose you are right."

"You know I am. It's just false chivalry. You get caught and we're all
licked."

He took a deep breath. "You're right, of course."

"Now, here we are and can we be safe here?"

"I think--" He held up a hand abruptly. His ears, attuned to life
aboard a spacer, had caught the sound of someone coming up the landing
ramp and into the salon a few decks above. Then faint as if it were a
hundred yards away but audible in the silence of the ship, they could
hear the triple-tongued piping of a man.

He was answered by Carolyn Niles. "Speak Terran!"

Farradyne nudged Norma. "That's the line I used and it worked," he
chuckled.

Carolyn's companion said, "Why use this mono-voice junk?"

"You know the rules. It's not smart to relax, you idiot."

"All right. So what's the answer?"

"Ask me in Terran."

"All right, Your Highness. I was merely inquiring as to the imminence
of your take-off."

"Don't be insolent! We're taking off as soon as we're all aboard. Now
get along with your work!"

The next voice scared them both out of a year's growth; they had
been straining to hear Carolyn and her companion high above them in
the salon, and now, with every nerve tense, the sound of the ship's
intercom roared at them with terrifying volume. "Carolyn Niles! Go
aloft, will you, and put the--" there came a triple-voiced syllable
"--into stand-by!"

Carolyn's voice replied, "Aye-firm. But look, boys, shouldn't we have
some Terran term for the space drive?"

"We ought to," acknowledged one of the men in the inspection cubby.
"But how do you translate it into Terran terms when they have no term
for it themselves?"

The other man said, "We could always use 'space drive'."

"No good. Better we didn't mention it at all. Leave it as it is."

Farradyne whispered, "They're a canny bunch. Talk the language always,
act the part always, live the life always; and cut your enemy short
when he's looking for something alien."

Another pair of feet came up the landing ramp, and Carolyn said, almost
at the same time. "It's on. How's she working?"

"Fine. We're finished. Coming up."

"I want to see."

"Okay, so you come down and see. We're coming up and getting started."

"Pincered!" said Farradyne to Norma.

He drew her to the cargo hold and handed her down the service ladder.
He followed, closing the door behind him and then, before he snapped
out the lights, he reached up and removed one of them, saying, "I
don't think we'll have an inspection, but if we do, having one lamp
missing will cast a shadow we can stand in. This is a dimly lit joint
at best." He waved at the shadow caused by the empty socket and then
snapped the lamp off.

Their weight upon the cushion of flowers was released[1] and sat with
their feet pulled up beneath them, not daring to say a word. Her
breathing, and the faint pressure of her shoulder against his told him
of her presence beside him.

[Footnote 1: Transcriber's Note: Possible printer error. This line is
repeated on the next page that seems to be more appropriate to the
story.]

They waited in the dark silence, listening, and occasionally tensing
instinctively when someone clumped past the wall outside or seemed to
come near the cargo hatch above their heads. There were voices and
calls and running feet from time to time, and then the humming sound of
the conveyor-belt.

The hatch above was opened wide but the lights were not put on.

And then from the end of the loose-cargo conveyor came a tumbling
shower of hellblossoms. They landed on the floor in a conical heap and
kept coming until both Farradyne and Norma were shoulder deep in them.
The air filled with the thick, syrupy perfume. Farradyne felt a slight
spell of dizziness from the heady odor and then wondered with horrified
interest just what effect this completely unpredictable overdose of
dope would do to the woman.

The shower of hellflowers came on and on, and Farradyne was forced to
stand because of their depth. Still they came and he found himself
swimming off his depth in them; it reminded him of treading in a
haymow. The rain of blossoms ceased as the hold filled and the lights
went on briefly for an inspection.

Farradyne was propped neck deep, his head barely below the ceiling and
he felt quite safe from detection unless the inspectors put their heads
down into the hatch to peer around the edges of the cylindrical hold.
He looked at Norma. She had scrabbled up and a-top the pile and was
lying on her back with her arms thrown over her head. Her eyes were
closed, but as she drew in a deep breath, the lids went half-up and she
looked over at Farradyne and smiled ecstatically.

The hatch slammed down, and she said huskily, "Such nice friends you
have, Charles."

He wanted to ask her if she didn't find this friendship a bit
overpowering, but instead he said, "They're certainly no friends of
mine."

"Nor mine. But this is ..." and her voice trailed away to a whisper
that he could not catch.

Pressure came upsurging and Farradyne felt that he did not have to
explain that the Lancaster was on its way to space and perhaps back
toward home. In the midst of the take-off pressure she found his hand
and drew it toward her, she snuggled her face against his palm. Her
free hand came over and touched his cheek, then ran back around his
head. She pulled him forward until she could rest her head against his
shoulder with her forehead against his face.

Her fingers ran through his hair and pressed his face to hers. He tried
to free himself, but he could not escape without being rough about
it and he believed that any bold move to elude her would bring forth
either pleas or bitter demands loud enough to bring the enemy on the
run. He struggled a bit, his hands closed on either side of her waist
but instead of moving away, her body came forward against his.

Then, abruptly, the pressure of the drive went off and they floated
free.

Their weight upon the cushion of flowers was released and the
springiness of the hellblossoms thrust them up, hard, hurling them
against the ceiling.

Norma's hands were dragged free of his head and, in clutching at him
frantically, her fingernails raked his cheek. The pressure he held
against her waist thrust her away as soon as she lost her leverage. Her
head hit the ceiling with a dull thunk, followed by the soft sound of
her body hitting flat. A sigh came from her lips, but it was the sigh
of an unconscious person.

The hold was filled with hellflowers floating free and spread apart by
the tiny pressure of the ends of their leaves and petals; Farradyne
fought them away frantically, but only succeeded in digging himself
deeper in the room.

Eventually he found the service ladder and clung to it, waving himself
a breathing space by pushing the floating blossoms back.

Norma's inert hand touched him limply. Farradyne toyed with the idea
of reviving her but gave it up instantly; let her sleep it off, and
preferably alone and elsewhere in this hold. He gave the hand a push
and she floated from him in the dark, pushing through the free mass by
her heavier inertia.

The exertion had called upon his reserves and he drank in lungfuls of
air that was stickily laden with the heavy perfume. It made him dizzy
again and he fought for air, only succeeding in drawing more of the
thick scent into his system. He wondered haphazardly what the effect of
an overdose of love lotus might have on a man; the experiment had been
tried but not to this extent. So far all it did was to make him feel as
though he were being doctored with a dose of nitrous oxide.

He scrabbled up the ladder and opened the hatch cautiously. It was
as dark outside as it was inside and Farradyne pushed the hatch up
further to put his face in the clean air and take a deep breath. Then,
because he felt better, he climbed out of the hold and floated free
in the air above the hatch. He latched onto a handrail and closed the
hatch carefully with a breathed, "You like 'em, baby. You breathe 'em
until I get back!"

Then he sat in mid-air with one hand hooked in the rail and with deep
breaths of the clean air, tried to think what to do next.




                                  19


He prowled the cargo hold level, floating along the circular corridor.
He knew it was not the safest thing to do but preferred anything to
a return to the hold. He did not stop to decide whether it was the
perfume of the lotus or the presence of the doped woman that kept him
away from his cover.

An hour passed, then two, and Farradyne was growing bolder by the
minute. He had covered the entire lower level of his Lancaster and had
stopped above his former hiding place speculating whether to hide or
not.

He decided not, and went floating upward through the ship until he
came to the stateroom level. He floated around the corridor noticing
that the little flags that indicated that the door was locked from the
inside were all down except one. One of his "guests" did not trust his
fellow travellers completely.

He floated on upstairs to the salon and almost ruined his silent flight
by trying to put on the brakes. On the divan lay a man in his clothing,
restrained by the hold-down safety strap. He was sound asleep.

Farradyne floated over, and then taking hold of the strap to keep
himself from flying free with the motions, he deepened the man's
slumber with a vicious cut of his revolver.

He floated on into the control room, where the silent and distant stars
watched. Some of them were moving down; these would be the nearby
stars, while the rest stood as immobile as he had always known them.
He would have preferred to stay and watch the effect of travelling
faster than light, for the aspect of the sky directly above was very
strange in color and in constellation. But he knew that he had started
something and he could see this odd, stellar phenomenon at some more
leisured time.

He took a roll of two-inch adhesive tape from the medicine supplies and
taped the unconscious man's wrists and ankles and then slapped a length
over the mouth that sealed up the gash along the side of the head at
the same time. Then he went down to his own quarters and opened the
door slowly.

A second man slept there, but Farradyne did not lash out with the
pistol. He holstered the gun and clipped the enemy along the side of
the jaw with a sharp chop of his hand. Tape was applied quickly and
effectively.

That made two.

He considered the situation carefully. So long as his batting average
stayed at one thousand he was in fine shape. All it had to meet was one
error and he was out of the game. His chances were not too good, but
they were helped by the fact that he was an unknown enemy among them.

This was some sort of undeclared war, but the Lancaster could hardly
have been termed a warship, since there were no space battles to fight.
The ship ran itself, there was nothing to watch, so they did what all
spacemen do, sleep. If he could catch them one by one....

He opened Stateroom One. It was empty. That put a different light on
things. Maybe this was not a fully loaded transport. Maybe it was just
like the average cargo-haul with only a couple of passengers.

He opened Stateroom Two and found it empty. That sort of proved it.
He opened Stateroom Three and found a man asleep in the bunk. The
enemy was stirring as Farradyne scanned the room, and he moved just
as Farradyne hastily launched himself across the cabin. Haste ruined
his aim so that his down-slashing hand clipped the man on the skull
instead of hitting him alongside the ear. The man grunted and swung out
blindly, hitting Farradyne and moving him up and away. Farradyne caught
the upright of the bunk, staying his free flight, levered himself
around and swung again.

The enemy parried the blow and let out a roar that sounded like three
angry locomotives tooting for the right of way. Farradyne pulled
himself down and around, then kicked out with both feet, catching
the man in the face and chest. The force drove his man deep into the
mattress, from which he rebounded to fold up over the hold-down strap.
He flopped up and down, limp, an inert mass caught between two springs.
The same force drove Farradyne out toward the open door.

His aim was still bad, his outsweeping hand caught the leading edge of
the door and he and it swung on the hinges until he came flat against
the wall behind the door. He fought his body around and came out of the
room feet first.

Catching at the handrail he stabilized his flight, then he took notice
of his surroundings, expecting the whole enemy horde to come boiling
out of their staterooms.

A door down the hall opened and a man came sailing out. He caught sight
of Farradyne and launched himself at the spaceman. Farradyne met him
with a slash of the pistol, which was parried by a block of the man's
forearm against Farradyne's wrist. It stopped the enemy's flight but
tore Farradyne's hold loose.

Farradyne recovered first, hauling himself erect just in time to let
the other man peer down the barrel of the gun. "Hold it, friend," he
snapped.

The enemy, about to kick himself forward, took a firm hold on the
handrail behind him and retracted his feet from against the wall.

"You can't get away with it, Farradyne."

"I can try, Brenner. So happy to meet you again."

Warily he listened. There were no other sounds along the corridor, only
the one he expected, and soon the little flag on the lock went in and
the door opened. Carolyn Niles came out in pajamas and coat, her eyes
blinking slightly. "What's the--" Then she gasped. "Charles!"

"Howdedo. Any more hiding in the dark, Carolyn?"

"How did you get here?"

"I walked," he said flatly. He turned to Brenner. "You stay there,
schoolmaster. I'm scared to death and a bit touchy."

Brenner shook his head. "I know you're scared. I'm scared, too. Scared
to move."

"Relax--but do it slowly. Now turn around and make it hand over hand
toward the salon. You follow the gentleman," he said to Carolyn.

Farradyne followed them both, calling to Brenner that if he tried any
tricks, Carolyn might get in the way of the shot intended for him. They
went up the stairway, one, two, three, and floated into the salon,
Farradyne making a bit of a time of it because of his full gun-hand. He
hooked his legs around the guard rail and eyed them coldly.

"Carolyn, let's see how good a job you can do on Brenner's wrists with
a chunk of this tape." He tossed the roll at her and she clutched
wildly and missed.

"Go get it!"

Carolyn performed some intricate free-flight maneuvers before she
caught the roll. Then she went to Brenner, who held his hands out
behind him while she ran tape around the wrists.

"I'd be willing to bet that's a slipshod job," said Farradyne. "But
it will probably hold until I can relax. Carolyn, coast over here and
force yourself to sit in the straight chair."

Farradyne taped her to the chair by the wrists and the ankles and took
a slight hitch in the hold-down strap. Then he added some security
to Brenner's bond and taped the man to the legs of the divan at the
ankles. With his hands behind him and the strap tight across the man's
hips, Farradyne felt that Brenner would be thoroughly immobilized.
He propped the still unconscious one up near Brenner and taped him
similarly.

Then he took time to go below and collect the third from his cabin
and bring him up. The man was struggling against the wide tape and
glaring at Farradyne over the plaster on his lips. Farradyne hurled him
backside first at the divan and followed him, to catch the man on the
rebound from the divan. He taped him as he had taped the others, then
he took a small flight to the bar, where he perched on top of it by
hooking his feet around one of the bar stools.

"Aren't we a good-looking bunch?" he chuckled. "Shall we sing?"

"Stop it, Farradyne," snapped Brenner.

Farradyne's twisted smile faded. "We'll play this game according to my
rules for awhile."

"How long do you think you'll be able--"

"Long enough. I'm running this show."

"You can't get away with it."

"You said that before. Convince me, Brenner."

"Why bother with you? I'm the one that counts."

"Cut it out," Farradyne said contemptuously. "I should think your
position would feel a bit awkward for a conqueror."

"The sooner you free us, the--"

Farradyne laughed in one loud humorless bark. "So I'm still your
prisoner?"

"In a way. You wouldn't care to die without telling what you know about
us. You'll do anything to stay alive."

"You damn well bet! And I'll do anything to learn a bit more."

"You can't make me talk."

"Want to bet? I don't think I could squeeze anything out of you by
torture, but I have a hunch you'll sing loud and long after you watch
me take Carolyn's fingernails off with long-nosed pliers and listen to
her stifled sobbing. An old-fashioned torture, but still effective."

Carolyn looked at Farradyne coldly. "Come to think of it, Charles, I
don't think you have enough sadism to perform the operation on me."

Farradyne looked at her. He held enough dislike of what she stood for
to do almost anything with cold deliberation, for he thought any pain
was small retribution. But she was still a woman.

Carolyn sniffed cynically, and Farradyne realized that he had mumbled
the last few words of his thoughts. "Just retribution, Charles, but
have you the guts to collect your revenge?"

He looked down at her. "No, I haven't. But I've someone with me who
might."

He took aim and sailed down the stairs. He soared around the stateroom
corridor and ran full-tilt into a flurry of floating skirts. He hurled
Norma from him and recoiled. When he caught himself again, he had one
hand braced against the handrail and the pistol aimed at the middle of
her stomach. She righted herself as he let out his breath and relaxed
his gun-hand.

"Don't ever do that!" he said sharply.

She looked at the gun and her face went white with the realization of
how close it had been. She looked at him searchingly as if seeking
company for her fright. She apparently found it, for her face relaxed
and she took a deep breath, let it out slowly. Then she fought the hem
of her skirt down again and blushed.

Farradyne chuckled, "Go into Number Four and swipe a pair of Carolyn
Niles' pajamas," he said. "They don't float. Then come up to the salon."

He turned and headed back slowly, stalling until he heard her return to
the corridor.

He went first and helped her make the curve around the railing at the
top. Solicitously, he steered her to the divan and fastened the seat
strap.

Then he faced Carolyn and the rest. "Speaking of retribution," he
said slowly. "I'd like you to meet a woman I know. Miss Norma Hannon.
She's a hellflower addict. Whatever she does is basically your
responsibility." He said directly to Carolyn, "You have me fairly well
pegged. I couldn't do it. But I think that Miss Hannon might enjoy
a bit of an emotional binge with the people who fed her the first
hellflower and caused the death of her brother." Farradyne turned and
sailed across the room to Norma's side. He reached out quietly and
removed the love lotus from Norma's hair, then recrossed the room to
hurl it into the disposal chute.

"Just sit there quietly until the effects of that thing wear off,"
he told her. "I'm going to take a tour of inspection of the gewgaw
they installed in my ship. I'll be back when they decide to answer
questions."

Farradyne dived down the stairway again. He had no idea how long it
might take, especially after Norma had been literally sleeping in a
smothering roomful of the things for hours. Probably long enough for
them all to get the whim-whams just thinking about it, he concluded.

He conned every stateroom on his way down. He was reasonably certain
that the ruckus would have awakened them all, but he wanted to make
sure that no one in them was lying doggo until he could make his bid.
They were all empty, so Farradyne went on down in the Lancaster,
checking the supply rooms and the galley and workshop, the other cargo
lock and the storage room. He looked into the inspection cubbies and
the wiring hatches until he had covered every nook and cranny that was
large enough to contain a human being.

The ship was clean.

He stopped once more to eye the four metal cases bolted to the floor
and discovered that the gentleman who had occupied the place when he
and Norma tried to hide had put nuts on the bolt ends and run the
cables neatly below-deck so they no longer trailed. He went up, then,
all the way.

"Any talk?" he asked brightly as he soared through the salon.

"Farradyne, you can't do this!" snapped Brenner.

"Who, me?" asked Farradyne, in mock surprise. "I'm not doing anything!"

Norma was still sitting in her seat on the divan. She had not changed
position. But her face was losing its softness and her attention was no
longer diverted easily. "I'm waiting," she told him as he passed upward
to the control room.

Somehow, Farradyne believed, it would not be very long waiting.




                                  20


Farradyne paid no attention to the oddness of the sky because it could
tell him nothing and he had more interesting things to inspect. The
little auxiliary panel was gone. The controls had been incorporated in
the main panel, neatly and as if they had always been there; in such a
way as to make any but a completely critical inspection pass them over.
They blended with the other myriad controls, so that only the pilot of
the ship would be able to find them.

There was a small meter, calibrated arbitrarily in three sectors of
colors. The needle stood high in the middle of the blue region. Below
the meter was a cross-bar toggle switch and on either side of the
toggle were flat buttons set flush with the panel, blue to the right
and red to the left. The wiring was concealed, Farradyne found by
looking under the panel that it had been neatly inserted into the main
bundle of cables and wires as though it had been installed with the
Lancaster's construction.

He considered the installation carefully.

In the history of warfare, Farradyne had heard of no one installing
a device that would blow up a whole equipment if the operator used
the wrong combination. In fact, designers worked hard to make such
equipment fool-proof because they knew how rattled a man can get in the
heat of battle. The worst he could do was probably the blowing of a
fuse if he tampered with it. On the other hand....

So much for that, he thought, and went on to the next matter:
destruction charges.

Big prime movers like battlecraft and stationary installations seldom
fell into the hands of an enemy in any condition to be reused. Either
the big stuff was shot to hell before the enemy captured it and was
therefore unfunctional, or there was time for the crew to render the
big stuff useless long before the installation was abandoned. There
were booby-traps, of course, but these were usually improvised on the
spot, or at least installed from a stock closet at the time of possible
capture. No thinking nation would ever install a booby-trap permanently
because of the possibility of the operator punching the wrong button.

Self-destruction devices were another item. These came shortly after
the Military discovered the electron, and at a time when there were
basic new designs of equipment the function of which it had been
necessary to keep secret from the enemy. Countless pieces of apparatus
had been equipped with self-destruction charges heavy enough to addle
the insides of the gear, and possibly bulge the case a bit. But a man
could sit on one of them while the charge went off and the most he
would get would be a sharp kick in the pants.

But such destruction charges were controlled from a separate panel.
There could be no mistake or error; no one could hit the wrong button.
Destruction must be performed with deliberation.

And so Farradyne eyed the new installation calmly. It might hold a
self-destruction charge, but the probabilities of having the control
handy enough to be used in the heat of excitement were remote,
especially since such a condition would leave a ship and crew marooned
in the depths of interstellar space to die because someone's finger
slipped. Farradyne was even certain that not much could happen if he
tinkered with the toggle, so long as they were in deep space by some
light years distant from anything large and hard.

He took the toggle bar in his right hand and pulled. It did not pull
so he pushed. It did not push. He turned the cross-bar slightly and
exerted effort. The bar moved downward in a wide arc and as it moved,
the seat of the chair slammed upwards against the seat of his pants,
and all of a sudden up was up and down was down, and the stars were all
in their right places. The toggle came to a stop and the accelerometer
read one gravity. The needle on the meter still read halfway into the
blue.

Farradyne chuckled aloud. He had it now. If the traffic lights flared
blue-green for "GO" and red-orange for "STOP" he had this combination
as well. Start your spacecraft and punch the blue button for start.
That was the beginning and the warm-up and nothing could happen until
the meter read into the blue section of its scale. Then the toggle
controlled the action of whatever generator of force was used, more
or less as the toggle was advanced or depressed. The equipment stayed
in readiness all the time. The red button was undoubtedly the cut-off
button to close the gear down once the flight was completed.

It was as simple as that. Farradyne had spent many an hour in
spacemen's bars up and down the solar system in spacemen's happy
arguments regarding the complexities of exotic equipment, so he
could theorize on both sides. The pro side was a matter of insisting
that electromechanical principles were universal and therefore an
alien bit of gear would function in a recognizable manner. The con
side considered the fruitless arguments that something new might be
discovered or that the evolution of instruments from the original
principles would follow the normal dexterity of the alien life-form
involved. But Farradyne knew that buttons are buttons and therefore
meant to be pushed, not pulled; and similarly, D'Arsonval had invented
the same kind of galvanometer as Ugthrybb, on Vega, with a moving
coil between the poles of a magnet, and just because one race was
right-handed and the other left, the principle did not change.

Then, being of a practical frame of mind, Farradyne forgot the subject
and began to wonder about his position and what he was going to do
about it. He squinted into the point-of-drive telescope and caught
sight of a tiny yellow star on the cross-hairs. That must be Sol,
distant, small, and far weaker than Sol as seen from Pluto. It was a
true stellar point from here.

Then he looked through the point-of-departure periscope and
automatically cut the drive so that the flare would not blind him.

Behind was the constellation of Lyra and on the cross-hairs was another
star of no particular consequence. No more important than Sol. He
got out the Spaceman's Star Catalog and opened it to Lyra. Among the
listings were a number of the F, G, and K classifications, and one of
them, about twenty-seven light years from Sol was listed for the right
position in the constellation. Farradyne grunted; it meant nothing to
him. It was merely Lyra.

The sound of a whimper cut into his thought and he remembered the
possibilities of the scene in the salon. He waited. He snapped on the
intercom and listened, wondering whether he could sit there and let
Norma go to work on Carolyn. Man's inhumanity to man was a pale and
insignificant affair compared to the animal ferocity of a woman about
to settle up a long-standing account with another woman.

"Charles, come down here and take this madwoman away!" cried Carolyn.

Farradyne sauntered down the stairs. Norma stood before the bound
Carolyn. Her eyes were glassy, her face cold. In one hand she held a
small bottle of acid from Farradyne's workshop, in the other a small,
pointed brush. As he came down the stairs, Norma dipped the brush in
the acid and approached Carolyn, holding the brush as she would a
pencil.

Farradyne held her hand. "Wait!" he said.

Norma looked at him with a trace of anger in her eyes. "Don't stop
me," she said. "I'm going to write 'Hellflower' across that alabaster
forehead--among other words."

Farradyne shuddered. His imagination had stopped working at the
point of removing fingernails and applying lighted cigarettes to the
skin. Now it leaped forward again and he could see the outcome of
this assault upon the woman's pride and beauty. A formerly flawless
skin covered with scar-tissue lettering of accusals, viciousness and
probably lewdness.

"Take her away!" said Carolyn. "There is no point in this."

"Why not? Or are you ready to talk?"

"I'll talk. I'll talk because you will never get a chance to use it."

"You talk and I'll take my chances on that. Give me the works."

Norma struggled a bit. "Please, Farradyne?"

"Maybe later," he said soothingly. "Sit down now, and wait."

Angrily, Norma turned and headed for the divan.

He turned to Carolyn. "What the hell is going on and why?"

"This is war," she said.

"Like hell it's war. This is backstabbing. But it'll be war as soon as
we can fight back."

"It is war," she repeated. "Let it go at that. The process should
not be unfamiliar to you; you've done it yourselves time and again.
First you weaken the enemy by undermining his resources, lowering his
resistance, by turning his efforts toward advancement against some
stumbling block. Then--"

"I presume that doping the women of a race is a right and honorable
practice?" sneered Farradyne.

"It is better than dropping a mercurite bomb. Face the fact, Charles.
We got to interstellar space first and met another people as racially
jealous as we are. We could have made a landing openly, but if we had,
the warfare you are threatening would have been here and done with
long ago and there would be nothing left of either of our people but
smouldering planets to mark the meeting place of two stellar peoples."

"You can say this knowing that no Solan has the barest notion of how
this doodad in the hold can permit us to travel faster than light?"

Carolyn looked at him with pity. "I'll tell you what would happen,"
she said. "You'd greet us with cheers and invite us in--long enough
to steal our warp-generator. You'd trade us your medical science for
our chemistry and your electronics for our gravities, and then you'd
meet us face to face to prove to yourselves that even though you got a
second-place start, you could move faster and hit harder than we could.
You'd carry your war to us, and we'd carry our war to you, and there
would be cause and effect and attack and retaliation with each blow a
bit more vicious until your people would be planting mercurite at the
same time we were. And then, as I say, the next interstellar race to
visit this section of the sky would find the radioactive remains of two
cultures. I know because our people come of the same stock."

He looked at her cynically. "Is that so? Where I come from it takes
three people to sing a trio, Carolyn. How do you explain that?"

"That's a recessive mutation."

"All right," he snapped. "So you've justified your own actions to
yourself."

"Of course. Everybody is self-justified."

"And you justify the doping of our race by calling it better than
meeting us face to face."

"Remember your own history. Even before the First Atomic War everybody
realized that warfare was a bankrupt measure to be undertaken after all
else had failed. You conducted your conflicts undercover, by boring
from within, by undermining the moral fiber and lowering resistance.
So, when your people have lost the ability to fight back, we'll move in
quietly and make an asset of you instead of a vicious enemy; ultimately
a ruined structure that must be rebuilt completely before it is of any
use to us."

"Got it all figured out, haven't you?" sneered Farradyne. "All except a
few of us who happen to catch on. Then what--if we don't exactly cotton
to the idea?"

There was a yelp from behind him and he turned just in time to
intercept Norma. She was advancing on Brenner with her acid-brush
poised. "Don't, Norma," he said gently, turning her aside.

"But you said--"

"Later." He gave her a gentle shove toward the side of the room and she
went reluctantly. "Brenner," he said sharply, "I want information."

"Ask," replied Brenner. "What can we lose?"

"Navigational data," said Farradyne, ignoring the question. "Where are
we and how fast does that gizmo run us?"

"I'd guess about six light years out from Sol. The warp generator
permits a top speed of about two light years per hour in Terran
figures. So go ahead and drive this can somewhere so we can get this
fool rigmarole over with. But take the dame aloft with you. I don't
want my face lettered like a washroom wall."

"Somehow it seems appropriate," chuckled Farradyne, but he took Norma
by the hand and led her up the stairs. She followed like an automaton
until they were out of sight, and then she came alive.

Visibly she relaxed. The granite set to her face faded and became soft.
Her lips curved gently and her eyes were animated. She walked briskly
across the control room, and turned down the outgoing gain before she
turned to face Farradyne.

"Charles, that was the hardest acting job I've ever done."

She snapped her acid bottle into one of the spring-containers so that
it wouldn't float all over the place under weightlessness and then she
went to the co-pilot's seat and dropped into it casually. She relaxed
with her head leaned back.

"How long after a sniff of hellflower does the effect last?" asked
Farradyne.

"Depends. I could feel the euphoria fading shortly after you took
mine out of my hair. The odd part of it was that it seemed different,
somehow. I feel so odd. Dizzy and weak and somehow frightened. I'd like
to be held, gently, and caressed like a kitten." She sat up and half
turned to look over the back of the co-pilot's seat. "This is honest,
Charles. I know, I can feel it; it's true and it's good, Charles. Oh,
yes," she said in a matter-of-fact voice, "I remember everything. This
isn't an act, Charles. This is the real thing. I've seemed to regain my
feelings again. Actually, I can almost feel sorry for them, you know?"
Her voice ended on an upward note.

Farradyne looked at her. Bemused, he said, "Could it be the hair of the
dog?"

"Hair of the dog?" she repeated automatically.

"The one that bit you," he said. "You were in an awful overload dose,
Norma; maybe the overload burned the dross out, like fire cleansing a
wound. Maybe--"

Norma blushed. "You were very gentle," she said.

He realized what she meant. He recalled the stories he had heard of
sophisticates who took their hellflowers to heighten the emotional
thrill of a symphony or a dinner; of men who had enough love for
their women to let them plumb the depths of emotion without using the
exhilarant as the cold means to a crude end. He had been with her
through her emotional binge and he had seen her through it quietly.
The fact that he had not wanted her, in fact repulsed her, had helped.
She had not been burned by piling passion a-top a heightened emotional
response.

He looked into her eyes critically. They were alive and soft. Could it
be that an overdose of the same devilish stuff could cure the effects
of its own?

"How do you feel?" he asked gently.

"Weak, washed out, but I can go on and on," she said confidently. She
didn't look it, but maybe she could, he thought. Excitement would carry
a person through a lot of trials. He looked at her again and understood
that he was right. She would go on and on, until the strain was over
and then she would probably come completely unglued for some time.

Farradyne put out a hand and stroked her cheek. She sighed against
his hand and moved her head from side to side. She reached up and
pulled his face down to kiss him on the lips. It was brief but warmly
satisfying.

She laid back in the co-pilot's seat, relaxed. "It's all there again,"
she said dreamily. "That same fast pulse and the tingle--and the
rather interesting feeling of danger. I'm a woman again, Charles; just
a very little bit concerned about being marooned in a spacecraft with
you. Let's get back home where I can enjoy my feelings. Please?"

Farradyne gave her hand a squeeze. "Done!" he glowed. Silently he
wondered whether she were really cured. He looked at her, at the glow
in her eyes and at the blush on her face, and he hoped so.

He slipped over the back of the pilot's seat and pushed down hard on
the toggle bar. The weightlessness came, and the compressed springs of
their seats tossed them up against the restraining straps. From below
there came a moan, but beside him, Norma relaxed in full confidence and
watched him work the controls with interest.

Two light years an hour ... Farradyne ran the Lancaster for exactly
three hours and then cut the super-drive. Together they inspected the
heavens and found a brilliant yellow star on their quarter. Farradyne
turned the ship to face it and pushed the toggle up and down. The star
reappeared without change. He kept his eye to the point-of-flight
telescope and raised the toggle slowly. Sol changed color, racing
toward the blue and the violet first and then turning a dull red and
rising through the spectrum again until it became violet once more. It
went through another spectrum change and started to increase in size.

Whatever caused this phenomeonon could not be explained by Farradyne;
perhaps by no living Solan physicist until many years of research
brought forth a theory.

But regardless of the theories-to-come, Sol grew in size like a toy
balloon hitched to a high-pressure air line until its flare frightened
the pilot. He shoved the toggle down and Sol winked back into the
familiar disc of blinding sun, about the size as seen from Mars.

Farradyne oriented himself with his knowledge of common celestial
navigation, consulted the spaceman's ephemeris and pointed at a large
unwinking spot. "Home," he said.

Two light years an hour ... Farradyne went to the computer and made
some calculations. He returned, pointed the Lancaster at Terra and
flicked the toggle up and down, counting off a few seconds for drive.
Sol whiffled past, changing in color as its position changed in the
astrodome, and when Farradyne drove the toggle down, Terra was a
distant disc in the sky above them.

Farradyne turned the outgoing gain on the intercom. "Terra dead ahead,"
he called to the prisoners below. "Still want to bet?"

Brenner growled. "You've got your bet. It's our lives against yours."

"Done!"

"Don't try to collect too soon," snapped Brenner. "You're not leading
your squadron of spacebombers yet."

Farradyne picked up his throat-whistle and put it in his mouth. He
worked it back with his tongue and said, "The hell you say, Brenner."
The result was a humming, whining, groaning travesty.




                                  21


"We'll not repeat," said Farradyne. "Norma, hike below and see that
our visitors stay taped to their chairs. I'm going to land this crate
without interference."

Norma nodded and went down to the salon. "They're still secure," she
reported over the intercom.

Farradyne replied, "Aye-firm," and then made his first ranging-radar
contact with Terra. He set his deceleration drive accordingly and
the integrator-needle crept over to the center-scale zero, informing
Farradyne that zero separation from the surface of the spaceport would
result in zero velocity of the Lancaster.

Then Farradyne fired up the radio and called: "Washington Tower. This
is a Lancaster Eighty-One requesting landing instructions. Registry
Six-Eight-Three. Farradyne piloting."

"Tower to Six-Eight-Three. Take Beacon Nine at one twenty thousand,
Landing Area Five. Traffic is zero-zero, but eight repeat eight
Spaceguard cutters are in formation at sixty thousand." The voice
changed in tone slightly. "Spaceguard, Code Watchung. Calling Watchung."

"Watchung to Tower, go ahead."

"Tower. Watchung, we are away from Beacon Nine. Lancaster Eighty-One
coming in. Give position and course."

"Watchung to Tower. Position azimuth six seven zero, altitude sixty
thousand, distance nine miles. Course twenty-seven North azimuth. Will
miss Beacon Nine by thirty-three miles. Recheck?"

"Recheck and aye-firm, Watchung. Tower to Six-Eight-Three: Did you
follow that?"

"Aye-firm!" called Farradyne.

"Watchung to Six-Eight-Three: Pilot identify yourself."

"Pilot Farradyne here, Watchung."

"Aye-firm. Watchung Five, assume command of Six, Seven and Eight. Take
alert pattern at two hundred thousand feet and stand by. Watchung Two,
Three and Four compute and take closing course on Six-Eight-Three and
convey to Landing Area Five. Farradyne, prepare to accept convoy."

"Deny, Watchung. Request reasons."

"Prepare to accept inspection, Six-Eight-Three."

Farradyne growled angrily and dropped the radio formalities. "Why?" he
snapped.

"You are suspected of hauling a cargo of hellflowers. Prepare to stand
inspection upon landing."

From down in the salon came the sound of cynical laughter. Brenner
said, "We'll let your own people punish you, Farradyne. Hellblossom
running, resisting arrest, kidnapping, operating with a forged license,
operating a ship with a questionable registry. I'll bet that life you
offered."

Farradyne knew what Brenner meant. Taped tight in his ship were
Carolyn Niles, daughter of one of Mercury's leading citizens, and a
schoolteacher supposedly named Hughes. There would no doubt be a lot
of other witnesses prepared to perjure him into three hundred years of
hard labor on Titan. He wondered how they had managed this; certainly
they had not been prepared for losing their captured spacecraft
so quickly. Yet the counter-preparation looked as though such an
eventuality had been expected.

"Six-Eight-Three, respond!"

Farradyne snapped his mike-switch and said, "I resent the accusation
and demand an explanation!"

"There is no accusation. We have an anonymous tip-off. You are
not accused of illegal operations, only suspect. Will you permit
inspection?"

"No!" snapped Farradyne. "Deny!"

"Code Watchung: Intercept Six-Eight-Three. Prepare to fire."

"Fire and be damned," said Farradyne in a growl. His hand reached for
the toggle and shoved it home for ten seconds. When he turned the
ultradrive off, they were far a-space and the radio was silent.

"Give it up, Charles," said Carolyn from below.

"Go to hell!"

Brenner said, "You might as well, Farradyne. No matter how you figure
it, you'll either be grabbed by your own people or get picked up by
ours. We can't lose."

Farradyne went below and faced them. "And what happens if I dump you
out of the spacelock and your cargo with you?"

"You could do that to Cahill," said Carolyn, "because Cahill was not
registered as a paying passenger. I am, and when the authorities find
me missing--as they will very soon if they haven't been so informed
already--you'll be called to account for me."

"Just what sort of act do you suggest?" Farradyne asked cynically.

"Surrender and turn this ship over to us. You will be detained as a
prisoner of war and imprisoned among your own kind."

"Doing what kind of prison labor? Growing hellflowers?"

"Not at all. We wouldn't consider that ethical."

"What a cockeyed code of ethics you have!"

"Let's not discuss ethics now. Surrender and you'll be placed on a
Terra-conformed planet with every freedom among your own kind except
the right to space flight."

"No, thanks," said Farradyne drily. "I had four years of slogging in a
fungus marsh because of your kind. I'm disinclined to give up after one
miss. It--"

"Charles!" cried Norma through the squawk-box. "Come up here! Radar
trace!"

Farradyne raced up the stairs just in time to see the long green line
of the radar settling down to a solid signal pip at the extreme end. He
flipped the switch that coupled the telescope to the radar and looked
through the eyepiece. At the extreme range of the radar beam was a
spacecraft, either the same starship that had chased him before or its
sister ship. It was closing the range fast.

Farradyne dropped into his chair and snapped the belt. He turned the
Lancaster by ninety degrees and grasped the toggle on the ultradrive.
Ten seconds later he resumed normal flight for a few seconds and then,
at another angle, he used the ultradrive some more.

He paused here long enough to take his space bearing, then plunged the
ship down between the orbits of Jupiter and Saturn, far to the south of
the ecliptic with a flick of the enemy switch.

"Norma," he asked quietly, after he had inspected the sky to be certain
of their freedom, "who is Howard Clevis' boss?"

"Howard reports to Solon Forrester directly."

"Oh fine," groaned Farradyne. "Getting to the Solon is no picnic. How
do we go about it?"

From the intercom came a suggestion: "Walk into his fourth
under-assistant sub-secretary's office wearing a hellflower and ask for
an audience."

A flick of color caught Farradyne's eye and he turned to look at
the radar. The line had wiggled slightly and, as he watched, its
extreme end formed into a signal pip. He looked through the telescope
and saw the starship again. Whether they had one with supervelocity
tracking methods or several hundred covering the solar system like an
interception net, it made no difference. They were on his trail.

Farradyne played with the high-space drive again, cutting some more
didoes back and forth across space, ending up this time not too far
from Mercury.

"Having fun?" asked Brenner.

"Shut up!" snapped Farradyne.

From below there came a rapid conversation in multitones, like someone
dusting off the keys on a pipe organ played in mute.

Farradyne swore as he sat there looking at the big chronometer on
the wall, counting off the seconds. Seventy of them went under the
sweep hand before the radar trace hiked up into the same, familiar
extreme-range warning.

Deliberately, Farradyne turned his ship toward Terra and hit the
ultradrive. "They called me a hot-pants pilot," he gritted. "Now I'll
really be one!"

Yellow-green Terra raced up and up and up through the spectrum and
burst in size from an unwinking pin-point of light to a shockingly
large disc that zoomed toward them frighteningly. They saw its
roundness come out of the sky in a myriad colors until it filled the
dome above them. Norma screamed, but by the time her voice had stopped
echoing through the control room, Terra was past them by a good many
miles of clean miss and Farradyne had cut the ultradrive. He grunted
unhappily because he was now as far from Terra on the other side as
he had been before he took the chance. This mad use of the enemy
ultradrive in ducking around the solar system was something similar
to trying to make a fifty-ton clam-shell digger split a cigarette
paper; at two light years per hour, their speed was enough to take them
from Sol to Pluto in one second flat. He could not control it finely
enough to do more than zoom off out of sight. Without a doubt the big
starship could maneuver at ultra-velocity with their drive cut in at
microsecond intervals mechanico-electrically, of course, which was a
setup that Farradyne did not have.

He shrugged, and then he patted Norma on the shoulder. "I don't think
that my aim is good enough to hit the thing," he said. He turned the
Lancaster end for end abruptly and tried a quick flick of the toggle.
Once more Terra leaped at them, a swirling kaleidoscope of color,
looming into monster size, flicking past.

When they came out of it Terra was again behind them by a few million
miles. Farradyne thought for a moment, started to say, "Maybe we--"
when he reached out and pressed the red button on the auxiliary panel,
"--are being traced by the generator doodad they put below."

"But what are we going to do now?"

"Hit for Terra!"

Farradyne set the drive for Terra and then sat there, tense and
waiting. He had not long to wait. The radar wiggled its warning trace
almost dead ahead.

They moved to intercept him, but Farradyne raised the drive to four
gravities and plunged on. The starship grew and behind it Terra grew,
but slower. The radio burst into sound and Farradyne grabbed the
microphone and said, "Come and get me, fellows!"

"Stop," came the demand, "or we fire!"

"Start a shooting match here and you'll have all of Terra wondering why
the fireworks," Farradyne said.

"Stop!"

"No!"

"One last warning. Stop!"

Farradyne touched a lever. "Maybe you'd like to polish a few rivets?"

The Lancaster turned ever so slightly until the starship was directly
on the point-of-drive. His other hand touched the drive and the
acceleration increased a bit. Caustically, Farradyne said, "Go ahead
and shoot! You'll find your own living room full of by-products if you
do!"

He was right. The Lancaster was on collision course with the starship
and if the Lancaster was blasted at this moment shards and fragments of
the spacecraft would spread like a shotgun charge, and if the starship
escaped being hit with a rather uncomfortably large mass of jagged
metal it would be because of sheer luck.

"Veer off!" came the strident cry.

"I'm going to ram you, damn you!" roared Farradyne.

The starship flared at its tail and at the same time a torpedo-port
winked as a missile blasted off. Farradyne gauged the missile and the
starship and kept his nose on the starship's lead. Gritting his
teeth he watched the missile come at him as he held his course by
sheer nerve. At the last moment the missile veered aside, obviously
controlled by the enemy to keep from hitting him. It was a war of
nerves.

The starship loomed big in the astrodome and Farradyne aimed the
Lancaster amidships. The interstellar monster grew rapidly until the
individual plates could be seen. Then with a silent, dark flicker that
was as shocking as a loud blast and a searing flare might have been,
the starship quietly ceased to exist as an obstacle in front of them.
They had resorted to the ultradrive at the last moment. The sky was
clear....

Except for the missile, seeking them and with no control to stop it.

It had curved in a vast circle behind them and was now closing in from
behind. The radar pip leaked across the screen; the missile must be
coming at them by several thousand gravities.

"You'll have to take this," gritted Farradyne to Norma. "Hunker down in
the seat."

His hands ran across the board and the Lancaster turned in space
slightly while the drive went up to six gravities. The flare behind
them lengthened with the increased power, and the Lancaster took
a slight side-vector to its course as the flare was aimed at the
seeking-missile that was homing on them.

Insensate, unable to understand the maneuver, the missile followed its
finding-gear and roared up into the long trail of reaction flare. The
flare was a by-product of water, stored in its tank as a reaction-mass.
It was heated by the atomic pile to an energy that destroyed the
molecular affinity of hydrogen for oxygen and then stripped the
electrons from their orbits, and when that was done, the nucleus of
the oxygen broke up into eight protons and eight neutrons and added
their binding energy to the drive. The flare was sheer gamma and sheer
bombardment and the word "heat" had no real meaning, until the reaction
blast touched something that was massive enough to absorb the energy.

The missile absorbed this energy, was bombarded back from the
Lancaster, and ultimately melted to join with the flare because its
mechanism could not function to start the fission of the atomics in the
warhead.

There was a sparkling burst from behind, like a monster signal flare.
That was all.

Farradyne cut the drive back to a more comfortable level and relaxed a
moment to let his body rest. Norma had blacked out briefly, but came to
as soon as the drive had been cut.

Ahead of them Terra loomed moon-sized in the middle of the astrodome,
and behind them the radar wiggled its tail at extreme-range again.
The range closed, and Farradyne with a grunt juggled his levers. The
drive rose once more and the pressure increased. The range closed more
slowly, but still the starship came on.

"You can't make it, Farradyne," the radio blared exultantly.

Farradyne laughed into the microphone and cut it dead with a flick of
his hand. "We may not make it," he told Norma, "but we won't end up as
live cowards!"

Terra loomed larger and larger as the range closed between the
Lancaster and the ship behind it. Norma cried out, and Farradyne looked
through the telescope to see the giveaway annular flare. The enemy had
fired another torpedo.

He laughed and Norma touched his arm; he turned to smile at the deep
concern and puzzlement on her face.

"They know we can louse it with our drive," he said. "And they know
that while that thing is coming up from behind we cannot possibly make
a turn-over and start decelerating for a landing. It's a thoughtful
tactic on their part--they hope."

"But I don't see--"

"Well, they know I won't pile up on Terra. I'll steer to miss. No doubt
they have another starship on the other side of the planet, waiting
to intercept us out here after I elude the missile. Maybe they have a
whole space net flung out. So hunker down, while I cut some didoes."

The radar showed the picture. The starship, now fearful of being
detected by one of the long-range jobs on Terra, veered away on a
tangent, while between them came the missile. Before them, the huge,
solid-looking pip that indicated the bulking Terra, crept closer and
closer. Farradyne cranked the rate-of-change dials and looked at the
figures and nodded; the enemy had computed their missile's drive
beautifully. It would meet the Lancaster at about the same time the
Lancaster met Terra. Since everybody knew that Farradyne was not going
to plow into Terra head on, he would have to steer to one side, but in
order to keep from being hit by the missile, he would have to keep on
driving right past Terra and out into space again--into the arms of the
net on the other side, waiting outside the radar range from Terra.

The alternative was to cut the drive and try to land, and if this were
tried the missile would blast the Lancaster far above Terra, long
before the ship could signal its home planet that there was danger in
space.

The missile's range closed home and Farradyne hiked the drive until the
reaction-trail was a sun-bright fury and consumed the missile in its
fierceness.

He cut the drive dead just in time to hear the first screaming
complaint of the superstratosphere. Farradyne hit the upper reaches of
Terra's air blanket at a point so high that the air there was a fairly
hard vacuum, but the speed of the ship was high enough to pile quite
a bit of air in front of it. The accelerometer went crazy, reading
peg-stop against the end of the scale to the left. Their seat belts cut
their thighs and the blood rushed to their heads. Norma's arms were
flung above her head, but Farradyne fought the pressure that tried to
lift his arms; he kept his hands on the control panel and caressed his
levers gently so that the Lancaster pinwheeled.

The screaming of the air grew louder as the ship turned broadside, then
diminished as its tail came around to align itself with the course of
flight. Then with the pressure coming from the right direction again,
Farradyne waited until the scream of tortured upper stratosphere
faded away and the braking pressure stopped. He hit the drive as the
Lancaster soared on past Terra.

Though the enemy must have been awaiting him on the line of flight past
Terra, the Lancaster came nowhere near them. Its course had changed
from the usual straight line to a long ellipse and the first turn of
the curve had wound their course so far from the anticipated point that
the enemy could not move over in time to intercept him. Terra rotated
madly below and to the side, then came moving up in the angle of vision
until it was at forty-five degrees off the nose and still rising.

Once more Terra loomed close and once more came the scream of air,
deeper and yet shriller as Farradyne cut the drive and let the
air-brake take over. They went on around Terra in a close ellipse, the
air-screech rising and falling as their altitude changed.

Three times around Terra they went, then Farradyne turned his tail
straight down with a few hard blasts and started to drop like a plummet.

Far to one side came a light flare and the radio gabbled something
that Farradyne was too busy to catch; in the distance a jet freighter
trailed a line of vapor and far to the south ultra-brightness of
a spacecraft take-off trail climbed into the sky. Farradyne, busy
checking the controls, the autopilot and the computing radar altimeter,
aimed the Lancaster for the southern edge of Lake Superior, and they
came down in a screaming fall.

The flare parted the waters of the Lake and sent up a billow of steam
for about a hundredth of a second. The autopilot cut the drive and the
violence ceased as the Lancaster sank into the deep, cool waters, to
stop, to come rising buoyantly toward the surface again.

Farradyne hit the switch that opened the scuttlebutt of the water tank
and the lake waters rushed in, killing their buoyancy.

The astrodome porpoised once, gently, and then the Lancaster sank
very slowly. Farradyne waited until the ship was resting tail down on
the bottom; he turned it slightly to one side and opened the drive by
a bare fraction. Water churned below them and the ship moved logily
sideways, toward the shore. He wondered whether he had enough power
coming from the motor to cut up a stream of bubbles and steam, hoping
that the cooling water would kill the rising turbulence so as to
conceal his operation.

He spent an hour testing and trying the depth along the shore until
he found a place that was just deep enough to let the Lancaster stand
upright with its dome a foot or two below the surface.

A small fish goggled at the shining metal hungrily.

Farradyne stretched. "We got this far anyway!"

Norma looked at him dizzily. "How?"

"My pappy used to tell me about this sort of come-in," he said. "Seems
as how he once knew a gent that had piloted one of the old chemical
rockets that used braking ellipses for landings. That was a heck of
a long time ago, before we had power to burn. But anyway, it wasn't
expected, I gather, because we succeeded."

"Now what?"

Farradyne grinned. "This is going to be a bit wet," he said. He took
the retractible antenna from its stowage and wound it with insulating
tape half way up its length. Then he pulled out the astrodome plug
and ignoring the stream of water that splashed on the control-room
floor, he shoved the antenna into the hole and made it fast. The water
stopped. The upper half of the antenna projected above the surface of
the lake.

Farradyne tuned the radio to a local broadcast station, and waited,
relaxing in his seat, until the music stopped for a station break. "The
latest news flashes on the system-wide hunt for Charles Farradyne.
The search for the notorious hellflower operator still goes on. It
has narrowed down to North America because of several reports, some
official and some unofficial, of activity a-space in this region.

"Farradyne is also charged with complicity in the disappearance of
Howard Clevis, high undercover operative for the SAND Office. It is
believed in some circles that Farradyne may be much higher in the love
lotus ring than a mere handler or distributor. Some officials have
indicated that Farradyne may be _Mr. Big himself_.

"An early interception and arrest is anticipated. Keep tuned to this
station for the latest news."

The music returned.




                                  22


"Very neat," said Brenner.

"I thought so," replied Farradyne coldly.

Brenner's smile was serene and it made Farradyne want to push his face
in. "Glad you made it. I wouldn't want to die in space. Now that we've
landed it's going to be easier to pick you up."

"Stop crowing, Brenner. I'm not licked yet."

"Why don't you give up? You can't begin to realize how isolated you are
from the men who might listen to you--if you could get to them."

"Look, Brenner, I've no doubt that you have your henchmen neatly
planted in many high offices. But you can't cover them all."

"How can you tell which is which?" laughed Brenner. "You can't get
through, Farradyne."

Carolyn stirred and groaned. Farradyne looked at her as she opened her
eyes. "Can't take it?" he sneered. "But how you can dish it out!"

"Where are we?" groaned Carolyn.

"Wouldn't tell you on a bet," he snapped. "You might be telepathic as
well as multitonal. I--"

Farradyne's eye caught a flicker of motion and he whirled. The other
two men were struggling against the tape that bound their wrists and
ankles, and they glared at him over the white sheet of tape beneath
their noses.

"Shut up!" roared Farradyne.

Brenner sneered. "Just how do you hope to do anything?"

"I have a few ideas."

"With every roadway plugged from top to bottom? And if you did succeed
in getting to a SANDoffice without being shot to bits, how would you
convince them of anything?"

"Sometimes it's better to start at the bottom and work your way up,"
said Farradyne. "The idea is to make enough noise so that a large
cross-section of the population can hear you."

Brenner laughed. "You think you can convince the public?"

"You may be surprised."

Farradyne lit a cigarette and relaxed. "We'll wait until dusk to be
sure," he said.

Hourly, the radio went on telling how Farradyne was being cornered.
Radar nets and radio-contact squadrons were scouring the North American
continent with special attention being given to the North Middlewest.
A ship of the enemy must have arrived with some information that could
be pieced together, for another report said, "Charles Farradyne, sought
on many charges involving hellflower operations, has been implicated in
the disappearance of Carolyn Niles, according to her family. Her father
indicated that Miss Niles had not returned home after a date with the
criminal. This is a familiar pattern with hellflower dopesters. Be
careful. The man is cornered and desperate. He will not hesitate to
shoot, he may even bomb a village or neighborhood if his freedom is
threatened!"

Brenner and Carolyn did not even jeer at him. The situation was
obvious; Farradyne and his white flag would be shot to pieces before he
could tell his name, let alone make explanations.

But now it was dark outside. The stars were bright above the astrodome
and they danced with the motion of the water. To one side a wavy trail
passed across the sky and high above there was the flicker of a space
patrol crossing the sky at fifty or sixty miles. The radio was alive
with reports and the police bands were busy with their myriad reports
and directions. Farradyne pricked off their calls on a map with a
drawing pencil. Ground and air patrols were combing a vast area and
space squadrons were holding a dragnet high in the sky above. For a
very brief interval Farradyne could hear a distant network in operation
which indicated that the same sort of complete search was underway in
other districts across the face of the continent.

He inspected his map and hoped that he had them all. Then, very
cautiously, he lifted the nose of the Lancaster above the water line
and eyed his radar. Pips showed here and there, a couple within a few
miles of him. He waited until they turned away, waited until they went
beyond the radar horizon.

Using just enough power to waft the Lancaster into the air, Farradyne
placed the ship in a gully a few hundred yards from a state highway.
The trees covered it from direct observation at night and the flat
hills and ravines would cover it from radar detection....

It was almost two o'clock in the morning when a lonely moving van came
along the highway. The brakes screeched as the driver caught sight of
a crumpled body lying alongside the road. Red sogginess contrasted
with the length of white thigh, uncovered by a ripped skirt, and more
redness dribbled wet from the corner of Norma's mouth. The driver piled
out of one door and his helper from the other. They ran to kneel by the
woman's side.

Then they smelled the ketchup and stood up, raising their hands
immediately.

"That's not blood spilled," said the driver loudly. "Let's keep it that
way."

The driver's helper added, "This is a bum job, friend. We're carting
second-hand furniture, not gold."

"I don't want your load," said Farradyne, stepping into the glare of
the headlights while Norma got up and dusted herself off. "I want your
truck."

They looked at him and he saw recognition in their faces. Obviously
every news agency had his picture presented in full color. He saw that
they apparently understood why he wanted the truck, for there was also
contempt on their frightened faces.

"What's the next move, Farradyne?" asked the driver in a surly tone.
"Do we take the high jump?"

"No. I just want your truck."

"Getting a bit brash?"

"Maybe I have to. Driver, what's your name?"

"Morgan. This is Roberts."

"Morgan, you drive that truck into the ravine there and I'll see that
Roberts plays hostage. Get it?"

"Behave, Al," pleaded Roberts.

"I will, but I think we'll get it anyway."

"Act like you believe that and you will," snapped Farradyne. "I have
neither time nor patience."

Morgan climbed into the truck and drove it from the road through the
trees until they came to the Lancaster. Both men goggled at the big
ship parked there and Farradyne let them look at it for a moment. Then
he waved his gun. "Unload it!" he said sharply.

It took them an hour to move the load from the truck to the ground, and
Farradyne spent that hour in nervous watching. He could not trust them
not to make a break, nor could he hope to explain. When the van was
emptied, he faced Roberts against it and said, "Norma, tape Morgan's
hands behind him."

She did, and while Farradyne stood over them, she taped Roberts. Each
man knew that the other's life was dependent on him and, while either
man might have made some break for safety, he would not so long as the
other might suffer.

Their lips curled in contempt as the conveyor-belt came out of the
cargo lock and the white blossoms tumbled along it to drop into the
van. Both Morgan and Roberts were honest men, but they lacked the
higher education that was necessary to be pilot of a spacecraft;
therefore, they resented the fact that Farradyne had this training yet
used it to such ends. They were rough-hewn and hard-boiled and, perhaps
like other transcontinental truckers, they had a woman at either end of
the line and a few strung along the way, but their love conquests were
lustily honest and they scorned the idea of hellflowers as an aid to
passion. Even in their fright they sneered at the spaceman.

Farradyne left them sitting there on the ground after the loading
was finished. He and Norma went into the salon and he faced Brenner.
"Better take this quietly," he said. "It's inevitable, Brenner."

The radio made him pause:

"Ladies and gentlemen, the late news: The system-wide search for
Charles Farradyne is hurrying to a close. Indications are now that
the infamous hellblossom king is hiding in the Lake Superior region
and all forces are being hurried to that area to create the most
leakproof dragnet in the history of man's manhunt. A special session
of the planning committee of the Solar Anti-Narcotics Department has
been called to deal with the problem, and any information pertaining
to Charles Farradyne may be delivered by picking up your telephone and
calling SAND, One-thousand.

"This information is being disseminated freely. We know that Farradyne
is listening to this broadcast, and the Sandmen have instructed all
radio stations and networks to deliver the following announcement:

"'To Charles Farradyne! A reward of fifty thousand dollars has been
offered for your capture dead or alive. You cannot escape. The forces
that are blanketing the Lake Superior area are being augmented hourly
by additional men and materiel. You will be arrested and brought to
trial for your life. However, the reward of fifty thousand dollars will
be turned over to you to be used in your own defense if you surrender
at once.'"

Farradyne grunted. "Very tasty dish," he said sourly. "Very competent
people you have, boys and girls. Someone really thought that one out
most thoroughly. Can you picture me walking up to a patrol and saying
'Fellers, I've come to give myself up so I can have the reward' and
then have the patrol take me in on that basis? I'd go in on a shutter,
and the patrol would divide the loot. To hell with you, we'll play it
my way. Norma, go ahead."

Norma slipped off one high-heeled shoe and advanced on Brenner. The
enemy agent tried to shy away, but Farradyne went over and caught his
head between the palms of his hands and held Brenner fixed. Norma swung
the slipper and crashed the heel against Brenner's jaw.

Brenner slumped, and the heelprint on his jaw oozed a dribble of blood
mixed with mud.

Farradyne slung Brenner over his shoulder and carried the inert man
out. He propped Brenner in the helper's seat and handed Norma into the
driver's seat. He stood on the runningboard and watched Norma strip
the tape from Brenner's wrists and replace it with fresh tape from the
truck's own first-aid kit.

"The ankles, too," he warned her. "You have to cover up the tape-marks."

Norma taped Brenner's ankles. Then she looked up at Farradyne. "I'm
shaky."

"I know," he said. "But you have to hold yourself together until this
gambit is played out."

She smiled wanly. "That's what is holding me together. Charles, wish me
luck!"

He leaned into the truck window and put his lips to hers. It was a
very pleasant kiss, their first kiss of real affection and mutual
confidence, though it lacked a compelling passion. Then he swung down
from the truck with a wave of his hand and Norma put the big engine in
gear with a grind that set Morgan's teeth on edge.

The truck turned onto the highway and roared off down the road.

Morgan asked, "What do we do now?"

"We wait in the spacer," Farradyne replied, "and go back under water."

Roberts shrugged. "Hope we like the trip," he said. "I've never been in
a spacer before."

They went up the landing ramp and into the salon, to stop short as they
saw Carolyn and the other pair.

"Quite a collection you have here," said Morgan. "Is this Carolyn
Niles?"

"I am," replied Carolyn. "Aren't you going to do something about it?"

Morgan showed her his taped wrists. "Not in this garb," he said. "This
man-about-space has too many things his own way."

Farradyne smiled and left them. He went aloft and returned the
Lancaster to the lake. "Now," he said, "we'll wait it out."

Morgan shook his head. "With the net they've set up you'll never see
your girl or the truck again, or the hellflowers."

"Maybe I want it that way."

"Oh? Putting the finger on the bird you carted out of here?"

"Precisely."

"And how about the dame?"

Farradyne laughed. "In this cockeyed society of ours, even a
streetwalking slut can rip her dress open, point at a man, and
holler 'Rape' and half the community will start yelling 'lynch the
sonofabitch' without looking too hard at either of them. She'll get by,
but it may go hard with him."

With some amusement he saw two different expressions looking at him
silently. Morgan and Roberts were scornful, angry and ready at any
instant to do whatever they could to overcome him. Only the tape kept
them from trying. But on Carolyn's face was an expression of mingled
defeat and admiration. She knew as well as Farradyne that Brenner was
in for a rough time.

Farradyne relaxed. He lit a cigarette and mixed himself a highball.
Carolyn groaned and tried to flex the wrists that were secured to the
arms of the chair. Morgan growled at the sight of her helplessness and
asked if Farradyne had harmed her. Carolyn replied, "Not yet. I happen
to be immune to hellflowers."

"Scorpions," said Farradyne, pointedly, "are immune to their own
poison."

It made no difference. Morgan and Roberts still wanted to get free so
they could take him on in a rough and tumble, and Farradyne knew that
either one of them would be more than a match for him. Tooling a truck
was not hard in this day of mechanical and electrical aids to human
muscle, but manipulating furniture was something else again. Either one
of them was capable of bending him double and straightening him out
again afterwards.

He listened to them discuss him. It was amusing, in a way. The first
remark was made with a sly glance in his direction to see how he
reacted. As he merely smiled, their observations became bolder and
more damning. They wondered how and why his degradation had been so
complete. They considered his family for a number of generations of
inbreeding and illegitimacy.

In all of this he had to admire Carolyn's ability to dissemble even
while she was playing a losing battle. She was determined to carry on
high until the bitter end, and she added to the slander with a fine
regard for the well-turned phrase and amplified all the truckmen said.
They were working on his chances for a painful Hereafter when the
radio music faded again:

"And here is the latest news on Charles Farradyne. Within the past half
hour the area of search has been narrowed to a ten-mile circle by the
interception of a moving van laden with hellflowers. The arrest was
made by a state highway patrol with the aid of a woman who gave her
name as Norma Hannon.

"Miss Hannon was in a state of hysterical collapse after days of
imprisonment at the hands of the lotus ring, a brutal physical assault,
and threats of being forced into love lotus addiction. The driver
of the truck was carrying a license made out to Walter Morgan, but
information from the Bureau of Identification indicates that Morgan
is also known as Lewis Hughes, a prominent teacher of Ancient History
in a Des Moines school. During the struggle Miss Hannon succeeded in
rendering the alleged criminal unconscious by hitting him on the jaw
with her slipper, after which she taped--"

Farradyne chuckled. "You see?" he glowed.

Morgan grunted, "My license!"

Roberts cried, "Our truck!"

Carolyn said, "And what's it got you, Charles?"

"--the first-aid kit," went on the announcer. "Morgan or Hughes is
being held on a John Doe warrant pending the true identification of the
man, charged with hellflower possession, abduction, illegal restraint,
assault and battery, rape and driving an interstate truck with an
improper license.

"Miss Hannon collapsed after driving the truck to within sight of the
dragnet set out for Farradyne. Her statement will be taken by the Sand
Office as soon as she is recovered. The point of hospitalization has
been kept secret by the Sandmen, who are now confident of an early
arrest. Indications are that Hughes or Morgan has turned state's
evidence and is willing to inform on his racket-boss."

"Hah!" glowed Carolyn.

"Did you a lot of good, didn't it, Farradyne?" snarled Morgan.

Farradyne ignored Morgan and spoke to Carolyn. "Unless Norma is being
tended by some one of your gang, this is the end, baby."

She eyed him superciliously. "How long will they believe her after they
discover she's an addict herself?"

"Maybe she isn't."

Carolyn laughed, "Everybody knows there is no cure."

"And how about our pal, Brenner-Hughes-Morgan?"

"You leave me out of this!" snapped Morgan.

"Sorry," said Farradyne with a smile. "I didn't mean to include you,
Walter."

Carolyn said, in a self-confident voice, "Brenner is one of us. He is
just as willing to die for our cause as--" She suddenly remembered
the truckmen present, who were probably as puzzled as men can be over
the trend of conversation. But she didn't have to finish. Farradyne
realized with a start that the enemy culture and training must include
a high degree of blind patriotism which demanded that the agent in
danger of discovery must be ready to eliminate his discoverer even
though it cause the death of both of them. The Semiramide--

A searchlight swept across the lake and its light, refracted downward
from the waves, caught Farradyne's eye. He left them in the salon
and raced up the stairs to the control room. Through the astrodome,
distorted by the water, Farradyne could see the headlamps of a big
truck. The searchbeam crossed the water again and flashed ever so
briefly on the slender rod of the antenna. The truck paused in its
course, the beam swept the woody shore and stopped; the truck turned
toward something in the woods and rumbled off through the trees.

The radio music died again. "Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to
bring you a very startling program. John Bundy, our special events
newscaster, has joined the forces scouring the Lake Superior region
for Charles Farradyne. Inasmuch as an early arrest is expected, and
possibly a running gun battle, John Bundy will take the air with an
on-the-spot account. Come in, John Bundy!"

"Hello, this is John Bundy! Our convoy of trucks, men, guns, radar and
radio control resembles a war convoy. We have everything from trench
knives to one-fifty-five rifles aboard as we scour the northwoods for
the criminal who has been so successful up to this time. We arrived
at a point along Lake Superior which must be close to Farradyne's
operations, according to the description given to us by the arrested
truck driver. Sand and mud from Miss Hannon's shoes correspond to that
district.

"Flying above us now are eight squadron bombers carrying heavy depth
charges because Farradyne is believed to be hiding his spacecraft in
the waters of the Lake. A submarine from the Great Lakes Geodetic
Survey has been hastily equipped with some ranging sonar from the War
Museum at Chicago and is seeking the submerged spacecraft. It--"

There came a distant crash in the radio and seconds afterward the
Lancaster resounded with the thunder of an underwater explosion.

"One of the depth charge patterns has been dropped," explained Bundy
excitedly. "Perhaps this is--no, it's not. Sorry. Just a hope, but the
submarine has just covered the explosion area and reported only an
underwater mountain peak instead of a hidden spacecraft. No place will
be left unsearched--"

A thin, pure ping of a pitch so high it was on the upper limit of
Farradyne's ability to hear came and lasted for less than a tenth of
a second. It came again in about twenty seconds, repeating at like
intervals again and again. The interval dropped; the volume of the ping
increased noticeably until the singing tinkle, something like tapping a
silver table knife on Haviland china, was coming fast.

Ping! Ping! Ping!

Farradyne looked above. Circling there were skytrails of jet bombers
making loops in the sky. There came another flash of the searchbeam
against the antenna.

Ping! Abruptly the pinging changed in tone. It became frequency
modulated so that it rose in a chirp, and Farradyne knew that the
submarine was coming closer.

_Norma! Get through, wherever you are!_

Along the shoreline something blossomed with an orange flash. Seconds
later there was an eruption fifty yards from the Lancaster that shook
the ship hard enough to make the plates groan. A trickle of lake water
oozed through the ceiling of the astrodome.

The pinging came louder.

Underwater bursts ricocheted and flashed and hurled their gusts of
force against the spacer, buffeting the Lancaster.

Farradyne's hands hung above his controls. He could escape this
holocaust; all he had to do was to blast free from the water, make
a brief run for it, and then come down hard on the enemy ultradrive
toggle-bar and his Lancaster would virtually disappear right under the
guns of the squadrons that sought him. He could hide in space for a day
or a week and return after Norma explained.

But this was wrong. To be sure he had the enemy equipment in his hold
and enemy agents in his salon who could explain the science behind the
device. Eventually it could be reproduced--but only if there were time.

For Farradyne realized that his act had been the first overt move that
could start the First Interstellar War--but the enemy would not permit
Sol to take the second move. Once their secret was out the starships
would hover over Sol's planets with their loads of mercurite and it
would be slavery or death. He would land to find a ruined Sol and a
few remnants of humankind reduced to savagery. The only result would be
the locating of a mercurite stockpile and a blow of retaliation.

And then someday, another sentience would come to visit the stars and
find only the smouldering ruins of two systems that could neither live
with each other nor permit each other to have supremacy.

Another bouncing crash shook the Lancaster.

The radio was rambling on and on as John Bundy gave the world a blow by
blow description of the first action made toward its ultimate death.

"--and to those people who have stood out against the expenditure of
monies for arms and training, I say they should witness this attack
upon an enemy of society. Yes, warfare is dead, but the conflict goes
on against evil and ruthlessness, and only by preparedness of strength
and preparedness of mind--to be as ruthless as the fiends that bore
from within--can mankind combat his own weaknesses.

"They are evacuating the area now. Farradyne is trapped and unless he
surrenders within the next half hour, atomic weapons will be used. We
may never learn the thoughts of the mind that has directed the decay of
the moral fiber of our people. We may never know why a man, given the
opportunities that many finer men have been denied, chose as his life's
work--"

Carolyn laughed hysterically and Farradyne went below for a look.

Morgan and Roberts fell upon him and hauled him down the stairs. They
pinned him to the deck and held him there. Carolyn stood above him.

"We don't mind dying," she said, "in order to take you with us! You and
your money and your paid agents and your bribed officials! Permit you
to surrender? To stand mock trial and be acquitted? Never!"

The Lancaster shook with the throb of depth charges.

Farradyne struggled against his captors. He'd been as blind a fool as
he had ever been, to let them sit there without taping them separately.

"Let me up!" he stormed. "Let me up so we can escape this bombing--"

"Shut the hell up!"

Farradyne struggled.

There was a blasting roar that stunned them all; it shook the Lancaster
viciously. The trickle of water through the astrodome was covered by
the ear-splitting thunder, but less shockingly loud as the Lancaster
hiked into the open air and braved the fire of the squadrons.

Farradyne fought himself awake. "Let him escape and we--"

Carolyn's shrill laugh drowned out his weak voice.

The radio went on as accursedly unanswerable as always. "Farradyne's
spacecraft has been trapped and fired upon and now the pilot himself
has been flushed from cover. He is making the criminal's last-stand.
The rascal is hoping to flee through the most thorough skycover that
has ever been assembled. He cannot hope to win though, ladies and
gentlemen. I wish we had video here in the early morning light, so that
you could see this vivid spectacle of the eternal battle between the
forces of good and evil!

"But we'll all be there when Farradyne goes down to the death of flame
he so richly deserves. Above him now are the jet bombers and above them
lie the Interplanetary Space Guard to fire the final coup de grace--if
Farradyne can run this gauntlet of righteous wrath that far.

"His flare trail is dimmed by the pinpoints of flashing death that
seek him out. On every side of me are ships vomiting torpedoes, guided
missiles with target-seeking radar in their sleek noses that will end
this reign of terror and dissolution once they find their mark."

Farradyne looked up at Carolyn and saw a glow of excitement in her
eyes. She looked down at him and said, "Charles, you almost succeeded--"

The radio clicked audibly and a forceful voice came on: "Attention!
Attention! All listeners hear this. This is the office of the Secretary
of Solar Defense, Under Secretary Marshall White speaking. All persons,
whether official or unofficial, whether citizen or military, are
hereby charged with the safety of Charles Farradyne and the Lancaster
model Eighty-One in his possession. This is a 'Cease Fire' order. All
citizens and military personnel, officials and non-officials are hereby
ordered to offer Charles Farradyne whatever he may request in the
nature of manpower, machinery, supplies, protection, material and safe
conduct so that he may deliver his spacecraft to the Terran Arsenal at
Terre Haute, Indiana."

Morgan looked at Farradyne with a scowl.

Carolyn cried, "Friends in high places!"

Roberts spat on Farradyne's face.

The Under Secretary's voice went on, "Within the hour, Miss Norma
Hannon, one-time associate of Howard Clevis, undercover agent attached
to this office on free duty, has presented irrevocable evidence to
show that the hellflower operations have been a part and parcel of
an unsuspected plot against humanity by denizens of an extra-solar
culture. Since Farradyne's spacecraft contains the only known device
enabling matter to exceed the velocity of light, its delivery to the
Arsenal is deemed top priority. All persons are charged--"

Farradyne shrugged himself out of the grip of the truckmen. "Go the
hell aloft and grab that bastard running the ship!" he snarled at them.

The other enemy rushed forward and Roberts caught a hard fist on the
jaw and reeled back. Farradyne wheeled with a wide swing and chopped
the edge of his hand hard against the side of the alien face. The blow
hurled the other back against the little bar, against which he crumpled
and slipped to the floor in a flaccid heap.

"Watch her!" Farradyne yelled to Roberts, who was recovering from his
blow. Morgan dashed up the stairs and Farradyne was at his heels.

The truckman raced across the control room and caught the enemy pilot
by his right wrist, whipped it out, around, down, back and up in a
hammerlock. He jerked once and then lifted the screaming pilot out of
the chair; hammerlock in one hand, his other arm clenched around the
pilot's throat.

Farradyne slipped into the pilot's chair and reversed the controls. He
oriented himself, and then boldly turned the Lancaster on its side and
sent the ship screaming through the upper air towards Indiana.

In the control room there were some flashes high in the sky. Terran
forces had made contact with the enemy.

       *       *       *       *       *

He turned in his pilot's chair as he heard them struggling up the
stairs. Carolyn was fighting her way up with tooth and nail and crying,
"I've got to see him!" Roberts was still stunned from the blow, a bit
groggy and also a bit reluctant to lash out and crush a few bones.

Farradyne jeered, "So I couldn't get through?"

Carolyn faced him, "You poor simpleton," she said, "you've just sealed
your own doom."

Farradyne shrugged. "Sometimes it's better to kill the dog than let the
fleas multiply. It saves the rest of the dogs."

"Do you realize what you're doing? You're giving up! You're admitting--"

"Oh, shut up, Carolyn. What's your alternative? To surrender quietly
and let your rapacious gang walk in? Of course we can't win. But you
can't win either because we're going to deprive you of victory. When
the next galactic race comes this way they'll find a couple of glowing
monuments to a culture that preferred death to slavery."

"But you couldn't possibly--"

"Oh yes, I can. That's why we're heading for the arsenal now. I'll get
my load of mercurite there, and deliver it to your system while you and
your gang are ruining ours. I call it retribution."

"You don't offer any alternative, either," she whispered.

"Complete surrender," he suggested.

"And you know what that would mean."

Farradyne looked at her. It was an impasse and he knew it as well as
she did. The law of an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth is only
good when there is a higher authority to see that it goes no further.
When there is no just authority to pass judgment, the loss of an eye
is revenged with interest, and the anger and resentment and desire for
counter-revenge grow and pyramid until nations and planets and solar
systems are involved in punitive wars that leave both sides weak and
broken. Primitive and ruinous it was. But then, so was all revenge.

It need not be ruinous. There could be a better way to pride, to
personal or national integrity. It had been done before in the middle
of the Twentieth Century and it had been the start of a consolidated
Terra. For there is personal pride in knowing that you have let your
defeated enemy live; in letting your defeated enemy know that you feel
strong and secure enough to hold his efforts in contempt.

Farradyne looked at Carolyn. "Surrender," he suggested to her. "Then
we'll move in quietly and count off your people. We've lost many of
ours, so we'll just tally off so many men to be murdered in cold blood.
So many virgins to be ravished. So many wives to be left without
husbands and so many husbands left without wives. Children left
homeless to such and such a number." His voice rose. "So much hunger;
so much pestilence; so much famine; so much death. What in the hell do
you think we are, Carolyn, a race of God damned vultures?"

"What do you want me to do?" she whimpered. "You're in the driver's
seat."

"No, I'm not!" yelled Farradyne. "And I'm not going to be held
responsible for anything that wasn't my idea in the first place. Your
outfit started this and now if your outfit does not care for the
end-game, it's for you to say. Now--do we drop mercurite?"

She searched his face and saw nothing but hard determination. She
shook her arm from Roberts' clutch and walked to the radio. Into the
microphone she began to singsong. She went on for some time; staccato,
musical now and discordant then, her triple-tongued voice rising and
falling as she spoke rapidly.

Then she turned from the radio. "You win," she said. "Somehow you
always win. And maybe--maybe I'm glad it's all over!"

Tears welled in her eyes and she turned away from them to stumble down
the stairway blindly.




                                  23


Farradyne looked down at the white face, almost as pale as the hospital
sheets. Norma looked up at him, her face wan and her smile weak but
genuine. He reached down and pressed her hand gently. "Relax, Norma,
it's all over and done with."

"You're sure?"

"Of course I'm sure. Dr. Fawcett told me this morning that you were
obviously on your way to a cure."

"I'm feeling fine," she said. "I'm weak, but I do feel better. This is
just from the strain. I held my nerves together too long and it's left
me sort of washed out. But I'll be all right."

"You've got to be," he said seriously. "This is all too good to miss."

"What's happened? Charles, you talk. I'm--"

"Sure. Well, you never saw so much gold-braid and striped-trousers
a-space before in your life. After I set the Lancaster down at Terre
Haute, they came aboard and sat on two of the guys for hostages against
my return, and a bunch of us went to Lyra Three Fifty Seven with
Carolyn as interpreter. We made 'em cough up Clevis and about a hundred
other bright guys who'd been too smart for 'em. They--the gold-braid
and striped-trouser set--moved in and they've been conferring ever
since. Seems as how I guessed right; both sides seem to think that
there's been enough strife, and that more can be gained by pooling
our efforts. Anyway, it's out of my hands now and I'm just a spaceman
again."

Farradyne took a deep breath and chuckled. "I've my license back, clear
and honest. There's nothing too good for Farradyne, former bona fide
louse. I've also got enough interstellar shipping contracts to set me
up in rare style. Within a year I'll own a whole fleet and then I can
retire and pay someone else to go a-spacing. Does that sound good,
honey?"

Norma looked up at him out of soft eyes. "Is this a proposal of
marriage?"

"In the first degree," he said.

Norma pulled him down and gave him her lips. They were soft and warm
and pleasantly affectionate, as they had been on the road in Wisconsin.
Then she let him go and he stood up. He saw her eyes fill with tears.

"Norma?" he said.

"Charles, it wouldn't work."

"But--"

She smiled gently. "It's not that, Charles," she said slowly. "I'm not
thinking about Frank and the years of hate. Since then I've come to
know you and admire you, but you see, I don't really love you, Charles.
I--"

He saw something in her eyes and understood; he hoped she would not get
involved in any long discussion and, to forestall it, he asked, "It's
Howard?"

She nodded. "I loved him before Frank--" Her eyes glowed a bit and were
dry again. "Howard is a strong man, Charles. He used Frank, and then he
used me, and then he used you. And the hellflowers took Frank, and then
they took me from Howard and finally they took Howard, too. But you've
brought them all back but Frank. To me, Charles, and I've got--"

He bent down and stopped the flow of words with his lips. "Be happy,
baby," he said against her cheek. "I'll finish it all up in fine style."

Farradyne left the room quickly. In the corridor he paused long enough
to shake the growing vacuum away, and then he went down to the waiting
room....

"Howard? She's awake and feeling fine, although she's still weak as a
kitten. A bit of the sight and touch of you would work wonders, Howard.
She wants you."

Clevis got up and gripped Farradyne's hand hard. "You're quite a guy,
Charles," he said.

"I want to be second-best man, Howard."

"Any damned day in the week," replied Clevis. He left and Farradyne was
alone.

Farradyne sat down and lit a cigarette. He blew smoke at his toes and
wondered at himself. He should have been feeling despondent. Instead,
he felt a peculiarly satisfying glow of contentment. He couldn't win
everything; somehow this single loss was meant to be and it was right
that he should not have Norma.

And then the plume of smoke curled around a pair of slender ankles and
Farradyne realized that his loss of Norma was not a loss at all; the
slight vacuum filled full as Farradyne knew where his last piece of
unfinished business was.

The waiting room resounded with a gentle musical chord. It was operatic
in quality; angel, hoyden and devil singing bacchanal. He smiled and
looked up at her.

"Any damned day in the week," he promised, getting to his feet.

Against his face, Carolyn laughed softly. "But you can't even pronounce
my name."

"I'll get along," he said. "We'll figure out something."

Arm in arm they went out into the bright sunshine.


       *       *       *       *       *




Once He had Been a Star Master--Now He Dealt in Soul-Shattering Ruin....


Farradyne had committed the one unpardonable error a Space Master could
make. He didn't die along with the other 32 passengers when his ship
smashed into the Bog on Venus.

They broke him--exiled him to the rotting fungus fields of Venus.

Now his only desire in existence was to return to the cool, gleaming
sea of deep space.

And there was a way--only one. But he would have to become the vilest
parasite in the universe--peddler of a poison that stripped the spirit,
before it consumed the body....


                          A PYRAMID BOOK 60¢
                           Cover: J. Gaughan
                           Printed in U.S.A.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HELLFLOWER ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
